Though the adults shunned it and the children were forbidden to come here , he 'd played on the open field a hundred times -- during the day . 
Tonight , his purpose was grimmer . 
Reaching the top of the hill , Kip stood and hiked up his pants . 
The river behind him was hissing , or maybe that was the warriors beneath its surface , dead these sixteen years . 
He squared his shoulders , ignoring his imagination . 
The mists made him seem suspended , outside of time . 
But even if there was no evidence of it , the sun was coming . 
By the time it did , he had to get to the far side of the battlefield . 
Farther than he 'd ever gone searching . 
Even Ramir would n't come out here at night . 
Everyone knew Sundered Rock was haunted . 
But Ram did n't have to feed his family ; his mother did n't smoke her wages . 
Gripping his little belt knife tightly , Kip started walking . 
It was n't just the unquiet dead that might pull him down to the evernight . 
A pack of giant javelinas had been seen roaming the night , tusks cruel , hooves sharp . 
They were good eating if you had a matchlock , iron nerves , and good aim , but since the Prisms ' War had wiped out all the town 's men , there were n't many people who braved death for a little bacon . 
Rekton was already a shell of what it had once been . 
The alcaldesa was n't eager for any of her townspeople to throw their lives away . 
Besides , Kip did n't have a matchlock . 
Nor were javelinas the only creatures that roamed the night . 
A mountain lion or a golden bear would also probably enjoy a well-marbled Kip . 
A low howl cut the mist and the darkness hundreds of paces deeper into the battlefield . 
Kip froze . 
Oh , there were wolves too . 
How 'd he forget wolves ? 
Another wolf answered , farther out . 
A haunting sound , the very voice of the wilderness . 
You could n't help but freeze when you heard it . 
It was the kind of beauty that made you shit your pants . 
Wetting his lips , Kip got moving . 
He had the distinct sensation of being followed . 
Stalked . 
He looked over his shoulder . 
There was nothing there . 
Of course . 
His mother always said he had too much imagination . 
Just walk , Kip . 
Places to be . 
Animals are more scared of you and all that . 
Besides , that was one of the tricks about a howl , it always sounded much closer than it really was . 
Those wolves were probably leagues away . 
Before the Prisms ' War , this had been excellent farmland . 
Right next to the Umber River , suitable for figs , grapes , pears , dewberries , asparagus -- everything grew here . 
And it had been sixteen years since the final battle -- a year before Kip was even born . 
But the plain was still torn and scarred . 
A few burnt timbers of old homes and barns poked out of the dirt . 
Deep furrows and craters remained from cannon shells . 
Filled now with swirling mist , those craters looked like lakes , tunnels , traps . 
Bottomless . 
Unfathomable . 
Most of the magic used in the battle had dissolved sooner or later in the years of sun exposure , but here and there broken green luxin spears still glittered . 
Shards of solid yellow underfoot would cut through the toughest shoe leather . 
Scavengers had long since taken all the valuable arms , mail , and luxin from the battlefield , but as the seasons passed and rains fell , more mysteries surfaced each year . 
That was what Kip was hoping for -- and what he was seeking was most visible in the first rays of dawn . 
The wolves stopped howling . 
Nothing was worse than hearing that chilling sound , but at least with the sound he knew where they were . 
Now ... Kip swallowed on the hard knot in his throat . 
As he walked in the valley of the shadow of two great unnatural hills -- the remnant of two of the great funeral pyres where tens of thousands had burned -- Kip saw something in the mist . 
His heart leapt into his throat . 
The curve of a mail cowl . 
A glint of eyes searching the darkness . 
Then it was swallowed up in the roiling mists . 
A ghost . 
Dear Orholam . 
Some spirit keeping watch at its grave . 
Look on the bright side . 
Maybe wolves are scared of ghosts . 
Kip realized he 'd stopped walking , peering into the darkness . 
Move , fathead . 
He moved , keeping low . 
He might be big , but he prided himself on being light on his feet . 
He tore his eyes away from the hill -- still no sign of the ghost or man or whatever it was . 
He had that feeling again that he was being stalked . 
He looked back . 
Nothing . 
A quick click , like someone dropping a small stone . 
And something at the corner of his eye . 
Kip shot a look up the hill . 
A click , a spark , the striking of flint against steel . 
The mists illuminated for that briefest moment , Kip saw few details . 
Not a ghost -- a soldier striking a flint , trying to light a slow-match . 
It caught fire , casting a red glow on the soldier 's face , making his eyes seem to glow . 
He affixed the slow-match to the match-holder of his matchlock and spun , looking for targets in the darkness . 
His night vision must have been ruined by staring at the brief flame on his match , now a smoldering red ember , because his eyes passed right over Kip . 
The soldier turned again , sharply , paranoid . 
`` The hell am I supposed to see out here , anyway ? 
Swivin ' wolves . '' 
Very , very carefully , Kip started walking away . 
He had to get deeper into the mist and darkness before the soldier 's night vision recovered , but if he made noise , the man might fire blindly . 
Kip walked on his toes , silently , his back itching , sure that a lead ball was going to tear through him at any moment . 
But he made it . 
A hundred paces , more , and no one yelled . 
No shot cracked the night . 
Farther . 
Two hundred paces more , and he saw light off to his left , a campfire . 
It had burned so low it was barely more than coals now . 
Kip tried not to look directly at it to save his vision . 
There was no tent , no bedrolls nearby , just the fire . 
Kip tried Master Danavis 's trick for seeing in darkness . 
He let his focus relax and tried to view things from the periphery of his vision . 
Nothing but an irregularity , perhaps . 
He moved closer . 
Two men lay on the cold ground . 
One was a soldier . 
Kip had seen his mother unconscious plenty of times ; he knew instantly this man was n't passed out . 
He was sprawled unnaturally , there were no blankets , and his mouth hung open , slack-jawed , eyes staring unblinking at the night . 
Next to the dead soldier lay another man , bound in chains but alive . 
He lay on his side , hands manacled behind his back , a black bag over his head and cinched tight around his neck . 
The prisoner was alive , trembling . 
No , weeping . 
Kip looked around ; there was no one else in sight . 
`` Why do n't you just finish it , damn you ? '' 
the prisoner said . 
Kip froze . 
He thought he 'd approached silently . 
`` Coward , '' the prisoner said . 
`` Just following your orders , I suppose ? 
Orholam will smite you for what you 're about to do to that little town . '' 
Kip had no idea what the man was talking about . 
Apparently his silence spoke for him . 
`` You 're not one of them . '' 
A note of hope entered the prisoner 's voice . 
`` Please , help me ! '' 
Kip stepped forward . 
The man was suffering . 
Then he stopped . 
Looked at the dead soldier . 
The front of the soldier 's shirt was soaked with blood . 
Had this prisoner killed him ? 
How ? 
`` Please , leave me chained if you must . 
But please , I do n't want to die in darkness . '' 
Kip stayed back , though it felt cruel . 
`` You killed him ? '' 
`` I 'm supposed to be executed at first light . 
I got away . 
He chased me down and got the bag over my head before he died . 
If dawn 's close , his replacement is coming anytime now . '' 
Kip still was n't putting it together . 
No one in Rekton trusted the soldiers who came through , and the alcaldesa had told the town 's young people to give any soldiers a wide berth for a while -- apparently the new satrap Garadul had declared himself free of the Chromeria 's control . 
Now he was King Garadul , he said , but he wanted the usual levies from the town 's young people . 
The alcaldesa had told his representative that if he was n't the satrap anymore , he did n't have the right to raise levies . 
King or satrap , Garadul could n't be happy with that , but Rekton was too small to bother with . 
Still , it would be wise to avoid his soldiers until this all blew over . 
On the other hand , just because Rekton was n't getting along with the satrap right now did n't make this man Kip 's friend . 
`` So you are a criminal ? '' 
Kip asked . 
`` Of six shades to Sun Day , '' the man said . 
The hope leaked out of his voice . 
`` Look , boy -- you are a child , are n't you ? 
You sound like one . 
I 'm going to die today . 
I ca n't get away . 
Truth to tell , I do n't want to . 
I 've run enough . 
This time , I fight . '' 
`` I do n't understand . '' 
`` You will . 
Take off my hood . '' 
Though some vague doubt nagged Kip , he untied the half-knot around the man 's neck and pulled off the hood . 
At first , Kip had no idea what the prisoner was talking about . 
The man sat up , arms still bound behind his back . 
He was perhaps thirty years old , Tyrean like Kip but with a lighter complexion , his hair wavy rather than kinky , his limbs thin and muscular . 
Then Kip saw his eyes . 
Men and women who could harness light and make luxin -- drafters -- always had unusual eyes . 
A little residue of whatever color they drafted ended up in their eyes . 
Over the course of their life , it would stain the entire iris red , or blue , or whatever their color was . 
The prisoner was a green drafter -- or had been . 
Instead of the green being bound in a halo within the iris , it was shattered like crockery smashed to the floor . 
Little green fragments glowed even in the whites of his eyes . 
Kip gasped and shrank back . 
`` Please ! '' 
the man said . 
`` Please , the madness is n't on me . 
I wo n't hurt you . '' 
`` You 're a color wight . '' 
`` And now you know why I ran away from the Chromeria , '' the man said . 
Because the Chromeria put down color wights like a farmer put down a beloved , rabid dog . 
Kip was on the verge of bolting , but the man was n't making any threatening moves . 
And besides , it was still dark . 
Even color wights needed light to draft . 
The mist did seem lighter , though , gray beginning to touch the horizon . 
It was crazy to talk to a madman , but maybe it was n't too crazy . 
At least until dawn . 
The color wight was looking at Kip oddly . 
`` Blue eyes . '' 
He laughed . 
Kip scowled . 
He hated his blue eyes . 
It was one thing when a foreigner like Master Danavis had blue eyes . 
They looked fine on him . 
Kip looked freakish . 
`` What 's your name ? '' 
the color wight asked . 
Kip swallowed , thinking he should probably run away . 
`` Oh , for Orholam 's sake , you think I 'm going to hex you with your name ? 
How ignorant is this backwater ? 
That is n't how chromaturgy works -- '' `` Kip . '' 
The color wight grinned . 
`` Kip . 
Well , Kip , have you ever wondered why you were stuck in such a small life ? 
Have you ever gotten the feeling , Kip , that you 're special ? '' 
Kip said nothing . 
Yes , and yes . 
`` Do you know why you feel destined for something greater ? '' 
`` Why ? '' 
Kip asked , quiet , hopeful . 
`` Because you 're an arrogant little shit . '' 
The color wight laughed . 
Kip should n't have been taken off guard . 
His mother had said worse . 
Still , it took him a moment . 
A small failure . 
`` Burn in hell , coward , '' he said . 
`` You 're not even good at running away . 
Caught by ironfoot soldiers . '' 
The color wight laughed louder . 
`` Oh , they did n't catch me . 
They recruited me . '' 
Who would recruit madmen to join them ? 
`` They did n't know you were a -- '' `` Oh , they knew . '' 
Dread like a weight dropped into Kip 's stomach . 
`` You said something about my town . 
Before . 
What are they planning to do ? '' 
`` You know , Orholam 's got a sense of humor . 
Never realized that till now . 
Orphan , are n't you ? '' 
`` No . 
I 've got a mother , '' Kip said . 
He instantly regretted giving the color wight even that much . 
`` Would you believe me if I told you there 's a prophecy about you ? '' 
`` It was n't funny the first time , '' Kip said . 
`` What 's going to happen to my town ? '' 
Dawn was coming , and Kip was n't going to stick around . 
Not only would the guard 's replacement come then , but Kip had no idea what the wight would do once he had light . 
`` You know , '' the wight said , `` you 're the reason I 'm here . 
Not here here . 
Not like ` Why do I exist ? ' 
Not in Tyrea . 
In chains , I mean . '' 
`` What ? '' 
Kip asked . 
`` There 's power in madness , Kip . 
Of course ... '' He trailed off , laughed at a private thought . 
Recovered . 
`` Look , that soldier has a key in his breast pocket . 
I could n't get it out , not with -- '' He shook his hands , bound and manacled behind his back . 
`` And I would help you why ? '' 
Kip asked . 
`` For a few straight answers before dawn . '' 
Crazy , and cunning . 
Perfect . 
`` Give me one first , '' Kip said . 
`` Shoot . '' 
`` What 's the plan for Rekton ? '' 
`` Fire . '' 
`` What ? '' 
Kip asked . 
`` Sorry , you said one answer . '' 
`` That was no answer ! '' 
`` They 're going to wipe out your village . 
Make an example so no one else defies King Garadul . 
Other villages defied the king too , of course . 
His rebellion against the Chromeria is n't popular everywhere . 
For every town burning to take vengeance on the Prism , there 's another that wants nothing to do with war . 
Your village was chosen specially . 
Anyway , I had a little spasm of conscience and objected . 
Words were exchanged . 
I punched my superior . 
Not totally my fault . 
They know us greens do n't do rules and hierarchy . 
Especially not once we 've broken the halo . '' 
The color wight shrugged . 
`` There , straight . 
I think that deserves the key , do n't you ? '' 
It was too much information to soak up at once -- broken the halo ? 
-- but it was a straight answer . 
Kip walked over to the dead man . 
His skin was pallid in the rising light . 
Pull it together , Kip . 
Ask whatever you need to ask . 
Kip could tell that dawn was coming . 
Eerie shapes were emerging from the night . 
The great twin looming masses of Sundered Rock itself were visible mostly as a place where stars were blotted out of the sky . 
What do I need to ask ? 
He was hesitating , not wanting to touch the dead man . 
He knelt . 
`` Why my town ? '' 
He poked through the dead man 's pocket , careful not to touch skin . 
It was there , two keys . 
`` They think you have something that belongs to the king . 
I do n't know what . 
I only picked up that much by eavesdropping . '' 
`` What would Rekton have that the king wants ? '' 
Kip asked . 
`` Not Rekton you . 
You you . '' 
It took Kip a second . 
He touched his own chest . 
`` Me ? 
Me personally ? 
I do n't even own anything ! '' 
The color wight gave a crazy grin , but Kip thought it was a pretense . 
`` Tragic mistake , then . 
Their mistake , your tragedy . '' 
`` What , you think I 'm lying ?! '' 
Kip asked . 
`` You think I 'd be out here scavenging luxin if I had any other choice ? '' 
`` I do n't really care one way or the other . 
You going to bring that key over here , or do I need to ask real nice ? '' 
It was a mistake to bring the keys over . 
Kip knew it . 
The color wight was n't stable . 
He was dangerous . 
He 'd admitted as much . 
But he had kept his word . 
How could Kip do less ? 
Kip unlocked the man 's manacles , and then the padlock on the chains . 
He backed away carefully , as one would from a wild animal . 
The color wight pretended not to notice , simply rubbing his arms and stretching back and forth . 
He moved over to the guard and poked through his pockets again . 
His hand emerged with a pair of green spectacles with one cracked lens . 
`` You could come with me , '' Kip said . 
`` If what you said is true -- '' `` How close do you think I 'd get to your town before someone came running with a musket ? 
Besides , once the sun comes up ... I 'm ready for it to be done . '' 
The color wight took a deep breath , staring at the horizon . 
`` Tell me , Kip , if you 've done bad things your whole life , but you die doing something good , do you think that makes up for all the bad ? '' 
`` No , '' Kip said , honestly , before he could stop himself . 
`` Me neither . '' 
`` But it 's better than nothing , '' Kip said . 
`` Orholam is merciful . '' 
`` Wonder if you 'll say that after they 're done with your village . '' 
There were other questions Kip wanted to ask , but everything had happened in such a rush that he could n't put his thoughts together . 
In the rising light Kip saw what had been hidden in the fog and the darkness . 
Hundreds of tents were laid out in military precision . 
Soldiers . 
Lots of soldiers . 
And even as Kip stood , not two hundred paces from the nearest tent , the plain began winking . 
Glimmers sparkled as broken luxin gleamed , like stars scattered on the ground , answering their brethren in the sky . 
It was what Kip had come for . 
Usually when a drafter released luxin , it simply dissolved , no matter what color it was . 
But in battle , there had been so much chaos , so many drafters , some sealed magic had been buried and protected from the sunlight that would break it down . 
The recent rain had uncovered more . 
But Kip 's eyes were pulled from the winking luxin by four soldiers and a man with a stark red cloak and red spectacles walking toward them from the camp . 
`` My name is Gaspar , by the by . 
Gaspar Elos . '' 
The color wight did n't look at Kip . 
`` What ? '' 
`` I 'm not just some drafter . 
My father loved me . 
I had plans . 
A girl . 
A life . '' 
`` I do n't -- '' `` You will . '' 
The color wight put the green spectacles on ; they fit perfectly , tight to his face , lenses sweeping to either side so that wherever he looked , he would be looking through a green filter . 
`` Now get out of here . '' 
As the sun touched the horizon , Gaspar sighed . 
It was as if Kip had ceased to exist . 
It was like watching his mother take that first deep breath of haze . 
Between the sparkling spars of darker green , the whites of Gaspar 's eyes swirled like droplets of green blood hitting water , first dispersing , then staining the whole . 
The emerald green of luxin ballooned through his eyes , thickened until it was solid , and then spread . 
Through his cheeks , up to his hairline , then down his neck , standing out starkly when it finally filled his lighter fingernails as if they 'd been painted in radiant jade . 
Gaspar started laughing . 
It was a low , unreasoning cackle , unrelenting . 
Mad . 
Not a pretense this time . 
Kip ran . 
He reached the funerary hill where the sentry had been , taking care to stay on the far side from the army . 
He had to get to Master Danavis . 
Master Danavis always knew what to do . 
There was no sentry on the hill now . 
Kip turned around in time to see Gaspar change , transform . 
Green luxin spilled out of his hands onto his body , covering every part of him like a shell , like an enormous suit of armor . 
Kip could n't see the soldiers or the red drafter approaching Gaspar , but he did see a fireball the size of his head streak toward the color wight , hit his chest , and burst apart , throwing flames everywhere . 
Gaspar rammed through it , flaming red luxin sticking to his green armor . 
He was magnificent , terrible , powerful . 
He ran toward the soldiers , screaming defiance , and disappeared from Kip 's view . 
Kip fled , the vermilion sun setting fire to the mists . 
