CHAPTER 1 Prince Raoden of Arelon awoke early that morning , completely unaware that he had been damned for all eternity . 
Still drowsy , Raoden sat up , blinking in the soft morning light . 
Just outside his open balcony windows he could see the enormous city of Elantris in the distance , its stark walls casting a deep shadow over the smaller city of Kae , where Raoden lived . 
Elantris 's walls were incredibly high , but Raoden could see the tops of black towers rising behind them , their broken spires a clue to the fallen majesty hidden within . 
The abandoned city seemed darker than usual . 
Raoden stared at it for a moment , then glanced away . 
The huge Elantrian walls were impossible to ignore , but people of Kae tried very hard to do just that . 
It was painful to remember the city 's beauty , to wonder how ten years ago the blessing of the Shaod had become a curse instead ... . 
Raoden shook his head , climbing out of bed . 
It was unusually warm for such an early hour ; he did n't feel even a bit chilly as he threw on his robe , then pulled the servant 's cord beside his bed , indicating that he wanted breakfast . 
That was another odd thing . 
He was hungry -- very hungry . 
Almost ravenous . 
He had never liked large breakfasts , but this morning he found himself waiting impatiently for his meal to arrive . 
Finally , he decided to send someone to see what was taking so long . 
`` Ien ? '' 
he called in the unlit chambers . 
There was no response . 
Raoden frowned slightly at the Seon 's absence . 
Where could Ien be ? 
Raoden stood , and as he did , his eyes fell on Elantris again . 
Resting in the great city 's shadow , Kae seemed like an insignificant village by comparison . 
Elantris . 
An enormous , ebony block -- not really a city anymore , just the corpse of one . 
Raoden shivered slightly . 
A knock came at his door . 
`` Finally , '' Raoden said , walking over to pull open the door . 
Old Elao stood outside with a tray of fruit and warm bread . 
The tray dropped to the ground with a crash , slipping from the stunned maid 's fingers even as Raoden reached out to accept it . 
Raoden froze , the tray 's metallic ring echoing through the silent morning hallway . 
`` Merciful Domi ! '' 
Elao whispered , her eyes horrified and her hand trembling as she reached up to grab the Korathi pendant at her neck . 
Raoden reached out , but the maid took a quivering step away , stumbling on a small melon in her haste to escape . 
`` What ? '' 
Raoden asked . 
Then he saw his hand . 
What had been hidden in the shadows of his darkened room was now illuminated by the hallway 's flickering lantern . 
Raoden turned , throwing furniture out of his way as he stumbled to the tall mirror at the side of his chambers . 
The dawn 's light had grown just strong enough for him to see the reflection that stared back at him . 
A stranger 's reflection . 
His blue eyes were the same , though they were wide with terror . 
His hair , however , had changed from sandy brown to limp gray . 
The skin was the worst . 
The mirrored face was covered with sickly black patches , like dark bruises . 
The splotches could mean only one thing . 
The Shaod had come upon him . 
The Elantris city gate boomed shut behind him with a shocking sound of finality . 
Raoden slumped against it , thoughts numbed by the day 's events . 
It was as if his memories belonged to another person . 
His father , King Iadon , had n't met Raoden 's gaze as he ordered the priests to prepare his son and throw him into Elantris . 
It had been done swiftly and quietly ; Iadon could n't afford to let it be known that the crown prince was an Elantrian . 
Ten years ago , the Shaod would have made Raoden a god . 
Now , instead of making people into silver-skinned deities , it changed them into sickly monstrosities . 
Raoden shook his head in disbelief . 
The Shaod was a thing that happened to other people -- distant people . 
People who deserved to be cursed . 
Not the crown prince of Arelon . 
Not Raoden . 
The city of Elantris stretched out before him . 
Its high walls were lined with guardhouses and soldiers -- men intended not to keep enemies out of the city , but to keep its inhabitants from escaping . 
Since the Reod , every person taken by the Shaod had been thrown into Elantris to rot ; the fallen city had become an expansive tomb for those whose bodies had forgotten how to die . 
Raoden could remember standing on those walls , looking down on Elantris 's dread inhabitants , just as the guards now looked down on him . 
The city had seemed far away then , even though he had been standing just outside of it . 
He had wondered , philosophically , what it would be like to walk those blackened streets . 
Now he was going to find out . 
Raoden pushed against the gate for a moment , as if to force his body through , to cleanse his flesh of its taint . 
He lowered his head , releasing a quiet moan . 
He felt like curling into a ball on the grimy stones and waiting until he woke from this dream . 
Except , he knew he would never awaken . 
The priests said that this nightmare would never end . 
But , somewhere , something within urged him forward . 
He knew he had to keep moving -- for if he stopped , he feared he 'd simply give up . 
The Shaod had taken his body . 
He could n't let it take his mind as well . 
So , using his pride like a shield against despair , dejection , and -- most important -- self-pity , Raoden raised his head to stare damnation in the eyes . 
Before , when Raoden had stood on the walls of Elantris to look down -- both literally and figuratively -- on its inhabitants , he had seen the filth that covered the city . 
Now he stood in it . 
Every surface -- from the walls of the buildings to the numerous cracks in the cobblestones -- was coated with a patina of grime . 
The slick , oily substance had an equalizing effect on Elantris 's colors , blending them all into a single , depressing hue -- a color that mixed the pessimism of black with the polluted greens and browns of sewage . 
Before , Raoden had been able to see a few of the city 's inhabitants . 
Now he could hear them as well . 
A dozen or so Elantrians lay scattered across the courtyard 's fetid cobblestones . 
Many sat uncaringly , or unknowingly , in pools of dark water , the remains of the night 's rainstorm . 
And they were moaning . 
Most of them were quiet about it , mumbling to themselves or whimpering with some unseen pain . 
One woman at the far end of the courtyard , however , screamed with a sound of raw anguish . 
She fell silent after a moment , her breath or her strength giving out . 
Most of them wore what looked like rags -- dark , loose-fitting garments that were as soiled as the streets . 
Looking closely , however , Raoden recognized the clothing . 
He glanced down at his own white burial cloths . 
They were long and flowing , like ribbons sewn together into a loose robe . 
The linen on his arms and legs was already stained with grime from brushing up against the city gate and stone pillars . 
Raoden suspected they would soon be indistinguishable from the other Elantrians ' garb . 
This is what I will become , Raoden thought . 
It has already begun . 
In a few weeks I will be nothing more than a dejected body , a corpse whimpering in the corner . 
A slight motion on the other side of the courtyard brought Raoden out of his self-pity . 
Some Elantrians were crouching in a shadowed doorway across from him . 
He could n't make out much from their silhouetted forms , but they seemed to be waiting for something . 
He could feel their eyes on him . 
Raoden raised an arm to shade his eyes , and only then did he remember the small thatch basket in his hands . 
It held the ritual Korathi sacrifice sent with the dead into the next life -- or , in this case , into Elantris . 
The basket contained a loaf of bread , a few thin vegetables , a handful of grain , and a small flask of wine . 
Normal death sacrifices were far more extensive , but even a victim of the Shaod had to be given something . 
Raoden glanced back at the figures in the doorway , his mind flashing to rumors he 'd heard on the outside -- stories of Elantrian brutality . 
The shadowed figures had yet to move , but their study of him was unnerving . 
Taking a deep breath , Raoden took a step to the side , moving along the city wall toward the east side of the courtyard . 
The forms still seemed to be watching him , but they did n't follow . 
In a moment , he could no longer see through the doorway , and a second later he had safely passed into one of the side streets . 
Raoden released his breath , feeling that he had escaped something , though he did n't know what . 
After a few moments , he was certain that no one followed , and he began to feel foolish for his alarm . 
So far , he had yet to see anything that corroborated the rumors about Elantris . 
Raoden shook his head and continued moving . 
The stench was almost overwhelming . 
The omnipresent sludge had a musty , rotten scent , like that of dying fungus . 
Raoden was so bothered by the smell that he nearly stepped directly on the gnarled form of an old man huddled next to a building 's wall . 
The man moaned piteously , reaching up with a thin arm . 
Raoden looked down , and felt a sudden chill . 
The `` old man '' was no more than sixteen years old . 
The creature 's soot-covered skin was dark and spotted , but his face was that of a child , not a man . 
Raoden took an involuntary step backward . 
The boy , as if realizing that his chance would soon pass , stretched his arm forward with the sudden strength of desperation . 
`` Food ? '' 
he mumbled through a mouth only half full of teeth . 
`` Please ? '' 
Then the arm fell , its endurance expended , and the body slumped back against the cold stone wall . 
His eyes , however , continued to watch Raoden . 
Sorrowful , pained eyes . 
Raoden had seen beggars before in the Outer Cities , and he had probably been fooled by charlatans a number of times . 
This boy , however , was not faking . 
Raoden reached up and pulled the loaf of bread from his sacrificial offerings , then handed it to the boy . 
The look of disbelief that ran across the boy 's face was somehow more disturbing than the despair it had replaced . 
This creature had given up hope long ago ; he probably begged out of habit rather than expectation . 
Raoden left the boy behind , turning to continue down the small street . 
He had hoped that the city would grow less gruesome as he left the main courtyard -- thinking , perhaps , that the dirt was a result of the area 's relatively frequent use . 
He had been wrong ; the alley was covered with just as much filth as the courtyard , if not more . 
A muffled thump sounded from behind . 
Raoden turned with surprise . 
A group of dark forms stood near the mouth of the side street , huddled around an object on the ground . 
The beggar . 
Raoden watched with a shiver as five men devoured his loaf of bread , fighting among themselves and ignoring the boy 's despairing cries . 
Eventually , one of the newcomers -- obviously annoyed -- brought a makeshift club down on the boy 's head with a crunch that resounded through the small alley . 
The men finished the bread , then turned to regard Raoden . 
He took an apprehensive step backward ; it appeared that he had been hasty in assuming he had n't been followed . 
The five men slowly stalked forward , and Raoden spun , taking off at a run . 
Sounds of pursuit came from behind . 
Raoden scrambled away in fear -- something that , as a prince , he had never needed to do before . 
He ran madly , expecting his breath to run short and a pain to stab him in the side , as usually happened when he overextended himself . 
Neither occurred . 
Instead , he simply began to feel horribly tired , weak to the point that he knew he would soon collapse . 
It was a harrowing feeling , as if his life were slowly seeping away . 
Desperate , Raoden tossed the sacrificial basket over his head . 
The awkward motion threw him off balance , and an unseen schism in the cobblestones sent him into a maladroit skip that did n't end until he collided with a rotting mass of wood . 
The wood -- which might once have been a pile of crates -- squished , breaking his fall . 
Raoden sat up quickly , the motion tossing shreds of wood pulp across the damp alleyway . 
His assailants , however , were no longer concerned with him . 
The five men crouched in the street 's muck , picking scattered vegetables and grain off the cobblestones and out of the dark pools . 
Raoden felt his stomach churn as one of the men slid his finger down a crack , scraped up a dark handful that was more sludge than corn , then rammed the entire mass between eager lips . 
Brackish spittle dribbled down the man 's chin , dropping from a mouth that resembled a mud-filled pot boiling on the stove . 
One man saw Raoden watching . 
The creature growled , reaching down to grab the almost-forgotten cudgel at his side . 
Raoden searched frantically for a weapon , finding a length of wood that was slightly less rotten than the rest . 
He held the weapon in uncertain hands , trying to project an air of danger . 
The thug paused . 
A second later , a cry of joy from behind drew his attention : one of the others had located the tiny skin of wine . 
The struggle that ensued apparently drove all thoughts of Raoden from the men 's minds , and the five were soon gone -- four chasing after the one who had been fortunate , or foolish , enough to escape with the precious liquor . 
Raoden sat in the debris , overwhelmed . 
This is what you will become ... . 
`` Looks like they forgot about you , sule , '' a voice observed . 
Raoden jumped , looking toward the sound of the voice . 
A man , his smooth bald head reflecting the morning light , reclined lazily on a set of steps a short distance away . 
He was definitely an Elantrian , but before the transformation he must have been of a different race -- not from Arelon , like Raoden . 
The man 's skin bore the telltale black splotches of the Shaod , but the unaffected patches were n't pale , they were a deep brown instead . 
Raoden tensed against possible danger , but this man showed no signs of the primal wildness or the decrepit weakness Raoden had seen in the others . 
Tall and firm-framed , the man had wide hands and keen eyes set in a dark-skinned face . 
He studied Raoden with a thoughtful attitude . 
Raoden breathed a sigh of relief . 
`` Whoever you are , I 'm glad to see you . 
I was beginning to think everyone in here was either dying or insane . '' 
`` We ca n't be dying , '' the man responded with a snort . 
`` We 're already dead . 
Kolo ? '' 
`` Kolo . '' 
The foreign word was vaguely familiar , as was the man 's strong accent . 
`` You 're not from Arelon ? '' 
The man shook his head . 
`` I 'm Galladon , from the sovereign realm of Duladel . 
I 'm most recently from Elantris , land of sludge , insanity , and eternal perdition . 
Nice to meet you . '' 
`` Duladel ? '' 
Raoden said . 
`` But the Shaod only affects people from Arelon . '' 
He picked himself up , brushing away pieces of wood in various stages of decomposition , grimacing at the pain in his stubbed toe . 
He was covered with slime , and the raw stench of Elantris now rose from him as well . 
`` Duladel is of mixed blood , sule . 
Arelish , Fjordell , Teoish -- you 'll find them all . 
I -- '' Raoden cursed quietly , interrupting the man . 
Galladon raised an eyebrow . 
`` What is it , sule ? 
Get a splinter in the wrong place ? 
There are n't many right places for that , I suppose . '' 
`` It 's my toe ! '' 
Raoden said , limping across the slippery cobblestones . 
`` There 's something wrong with it -- I stubbed it when I fell , but the pain is n't going away . '' 
Galladon shook his head ruefully . 
`` Welcome to Elantris , sule . 
You 're dead -- your body wo n't repair itself like it should . '' 
`` What ? '' 
Raoden flopped to the ground next to Galladon 's steps . 
His toe continued to hurt with a pain as sharp as the moment he stubbed it . 
`` Every pain , sule , '' Galladon whispered . 
`` Every cut , every nick , every bruise , and every ache -- they will stay with you until you go mad from the suffering . 
As I said , welcome to Elantris . '' 
`` How do you stand it ? '' 
Raoden asked , massaging his toe , an action that did n't help . 
It was such a silly little injury , but he had to fight to keep the pained tears from his eyes . 
`` We do n't . 
We 're either very careful , or we end up like those rulos you saw in the courtyard . '' 
`` In the courtyard ... . 
Idos Domi ! '' 
Raoden pulled himself to his feet and hobbled toward the courtyard . 
He found the beggar boy in the same location , near the mouth of the alley . 
He was still alive ... in a way . 
The boy 's eyes stared blankly into the air , the pupils quivering . 
His lips worked silently , no sound escaping . 
The boy 's neck had been completely crushed , and there was a massive gash in its side , exposing the vertebrae and throat . 
The boy tried without success to breathe through the mess . 
Suddenly Raoden 's toe did n't seem so bad . 
`` Idos Domi ... '' Raoden whispered , turning his head as his stomach lurched . 
He reached out and grabbed the side of a building to steady himself , his head bowed , as he tried to keep from adding to the sludge on the cobblestones . 
`` There is n't much left for this one , '' Galladon said with a matter-of-fact tone , crouching down next to the beggar . 
`` How ... ? '' 
Raoden began , then stopped as his stomach threatened him again . 
He sat down in the slime with a plop and , after a few deep breaths , continued . 
`` How long will he live like that ? '' 
`` You still do n't understand , sule , '' Galladon said , his accented voice sorrowful . 
`` He is n't alive -- none of us are . 
That 's why we 're here . 
Kolo ? 
The boy will stay like this forever . 
That is , after all , the typical length of eternal damnation . '' 
`` Is there nothing we can do ? '' 
Galladon shrugged . 
`` We could try burning him , assuming we could make a fire . 
Elantrian bodies seem to burn better than those of regular people , and some think that 's a fitting death for our kind . '' 
`` And ... '' Raoden said , still unable to look at the boy . 
`` And if we do that , what happens to him -- his soul ? '' 
`` He does n't have a soul , '' Galladon said . 
`` Or so the priests tell us . 
Korathi , Derethi , Jesker -- they all say the same thing . 
We 're damned . '' 
`` That does n't answer my question . 
Will the pain stop if he is burned ? '' 
Galladon looked down at the boy . 
Eventually , he just shrugged . 
`` Some say that if you burn us , or cut off our head , or do anything that completely destroys the body , we 'll just stop existing . 
Others , they say the pain goes on -- that we become pain . 
They think we 'd float thoughtlessly , unable to feel anything but agony . 
I do n't like either option , so I just try to keep myself in one piece . 
Kolo ? '' 
`` Yes , '' Raoden whispered . 
`` I kolo . '' 
He turned , finally getting the courage to look back at the wounded boy . 
The enormous gash stared back at him . 
Blood seeped slowly from the wound -- as if the liquid were just sitting in the veins , like stagnant water in a pool . 
With a sudden chill Raoden reached up and felt his chest . 
`` I do n't have a heartbeat , '' he realized for the first time . 
Galladon looked at Raoden as if he had made an utterly idiotic statement . 
`` Sule , you 're dead . 
Kolo ? '' 
_______ They did n't burn the boy . 
Not only did they lack the proper implements to make fire , but Galladon forbade it . 
`` We ca n't make a decision like that . 
What if he really has no soul ? 
What if he stopped existing when we burned his body ? 
To many , an existence of agony is better than no existence at all . '' 
So , they left the boy where he had fallen -- Galladon doing so without a second thought , Raoden following because he could n't think of anything else to do , though he felt the pain of guilt more sharply than even the pain in his toe . 
Galladon obviously did n't care whether Raoden followed him , went in another direction , or stood staring at an interesting spot of grime on the wall . 
The large , dark-skinned man walked back the way they had come , passing the occasional moaning body in a gutter , his back turned toward Raoden with a posture of complete indifference . 
Watching the Dula go , Raoden tried to gather his thoughts . 
He had been trained for a life in politics ; years of preparation had conditioned him to make quick decisions . 
He made one just then . 
He decided to trust Galladon . 
There was something innately likable about the Dula , something Raoden found indefinably appealing , even if it was covered by a grime of pessimism as thick as the slime on the ground . 
It was more than Galladon 's lucidity , more than just his leisurely attitude . 
Raoden had seen the man 's eyes when he regarded the suffering child . 
Galladon claimed to accept the inevitable , but he felt sad that he had to do so . 
The Dula found his former perch on the steps and settled back down . 
Taking a determined breath , Raoden walked over and stood expectantly in front of the man . 
Galladon glanced up . 
`` What ? '' 
`` I need your help , Galladon , '' Raoden said , squatting on the ground in front of the steps . 
Galladon snorted . 
`` This is Elantris , sule . 
There 's no such thing as help . 
Pain , insanity , and a whole lot of slime are the only things you 'll find here . '' 
`` You almost sound like you believe that . '' 
`` You are asking in the wrong place , sule . '' 
`` You 're the only noncomatose person I 've met in here who has n't attacked me , '' Raoden said . 
`` Your actions speak much more convincingly than your words . '' 
`` Perhaps I simply have n't tried to hurt you because I know you do n't have anything to take . '' 
`` I do n't believe that . '' 
Galladon shrugged an `` I do n't care what you believe '' shrug and turned away , leaning back against the side of the building and closing his eyes . 
`` Are you hungry , Galladon ? '' 
Raoden asked quietly . 
The man 's eyes snapped open . 
`` I used to wonder when King Iadon fed the Elantrians , '' Raoden mused . 
`` I never heard of any supplies entering the city , but I always assumed that they were sent . 
After all , I thought , the Elantrians stay alive . 
I never understood . 
If the people of this city can exist without heartbeats , then they can probably exist without food . 
Of course , that does n't mean the hunger goes away . 
I was ravenous when I awoke this morning , and I still am . 
From the looks in the eyes of those men who attacked me , I 'd guess the hunger only gets worse . '' 
Raoden reached under his grime-stained sacrificial robe , pulling out a thin object and holding it up for Galladon to see . 
A piece of dried meat . 
Galladon 's eyes opened all the way , his face changing from bored to interested . 
There was a glint in his eyes -- a bit of the same wildness that Raoden had seen in the savage men earlier . 
It was more controlled , but it was there . 
For the first time , Raoden realized just how much he was gambling on his first impression of the Dula . 
`` Where did that come from ? '' 
Galladon asked slowly . 
`` It fell out of my basket when the priests were leading me here , so I stuffed it under my sash . 
Do you want it or not ? '' 
Galladon did n't answer for a moment . 
`` What makes you think I wo n't simply attack you and take it ? '' 
The words were not hypothetical ; Raoden could tell that a part of Galladon was actually considering such an action . 
How large a part was still indeterminable . 
`` You called me ` sule , ' Galladon . 
How could you kill one you 've dubbed a friend ? '' 
Galladon sat , transfixed by the tiny piece of meat . 
A thin drop of spittle ran unnoticed from the side of his mouth . 
He looked up at Raoden , who was growing increasingly anxious . 
When their eyes met , something sparked in Galladon , and the tension snapped . 
The Dula suddenly bellowed a deep , resounding laugh . 
`` You speak Duladen , sule ? '' 
`` Only a few words , '' Raoden said modestly . 
`` An educated man ? 
Rich offerings for Elantris today ! 
All right , you conniving rulo , what do you want ? '' 
`` Thirty days , '' Raoden said . 
`` For thirty days you will show me around and tell me what you know . '' 
`` Thirty days ? 
Sule , you 're kayana . '' 
`` The way I see it , '' Raoden said , moving to tuck the meat back in his sash , `` the only food that ever enters this place arrives with the newcomers . 
One must get pretty hungry with so few offerings and so many mouths to feed . 
One would think the hunger would be almost maddening . '' 
`` Twenty days , '' Galladon said , a hint of his former intensity showing again . 
`` Thirty , Galladon . 
If you wo n't help me , someone else will . '' 
Galladon ground his teeth for a moment . 
`` Rulo , '' he muttered , then held out his hand . 
`` Thirty days . 
Fortunately , I was n't planning any extended trips during the next month . '' 
Raoden tossed him the meat with a laugh . 
Galladon snatched the meat . 
Then , though his hand jerked reflexively toward his mouth , he stopped . 
With a careful motion he tucked the meat into a pocket and stood up . 
`` So , what should I call you ? '' 
Raoden paused . 
Probably best if people do n't know I 'm royalty , for now . 
``` Sule ' works just fine for me . '' 
Galladon chuckled . 
`` The private type , I see . 
Well , let 's go then . 
It 's time for you to get the grand tour . '' 
