The day was unmercifully hot . 
The other slaves went about their work , ignoring the sound as much as possible . 
Life in the work camp was cheap , and it did no good to dwell on the fate that awaited so many . 
The dying man had been bitten by a relli , a snakelike swamp creature . 
Its venom was slow-acting and painful ; short of magic , there was no cure . 
Suddenly there was silence . 
Pug looked over to see a Tsurani guard wipe off his sword . 
A hand fell on Pug 's shoulder . 
Laurie 's voice whispered in his ear , ` Looks like our venerable overseer was disturbed by the sound of Toffston 's dying . ' 
Pug tied a coil of rope securely around his waist . 
` At least it ended quickly . ' 
He turned to the tall , blond singer from the Kingdom city of Tyr-Sog and said , ` Keep a sharp eye out . 
This one 's old and may be rotten . ' 
Without another word . 
Pug scampered up the bole of the ngaggi tree , a firiike swamp tree the Tsurani harvested for wood and resins . 
With few metals , the Tsurani had become clever in finding many substitutes . 
The wood of this tree could be worked Uke paper , then dried to an incredible hardness , useful in fashioning . 
a hundred things . 
The resins were used to laminate woods and cure hides . 
Properly cured hides could produce a suit of leather armor as tough as Midkemian chain mail , and laminated wooden weapons were nearly the match of Midkemian steel . 
Four years in the swamp camp had hardened Pug 's body . 
His sinewy muscles strained as he climbed the tree . 
His skin had been tanned deeply by the harsh sun of the Tsurani homeworld . 
His face was covered by a slave 's beard . 
Pug reached the first large branches and looked down at his friend . 
Laurie stood knee-deep in the murky water , absently swatting at the insects that plagued them while they worked . 
Pug liked Laurie . 
The troubadour had no business being here , but then he had had no business tagging along with a patrol in the hope of seeing Tsurani soldiers , either . 
He said he had wanted material for ballads that would make him famous throughout the Kingdom . 
He had seen more than he had hoped for . 
The patrol had ridden into a major Tsurani offensive and Laurie had been captured . 
He had come to this camp over four months ago , and he and Pug had quickly become friends . 
Pug continued his climb , keeping one eye always searching for the dangerous tree dwellers of Kelewan . 
Reaching the most likely place for a topping . 
Pug froze as he caught a glimpse of movement . 
He relaxed when he saw it was only a needier , a creature whose protection was its resemblance to a clump of ngaggi needles . 
It scurried away from the presence of the human and made the short jump to the branch of a neighboring tree . 
Pug made another survey and started tying his ropes . 
His job was to cut away the tops of the huge trees , making the fall less dangerous to those below . 
Pug took several cuts at the bark , then felt the edge of his wooden ax bite into the softer pulp beneath . 
A faint pungent odor greeted his careful sniffing . 
Swearing , he called down to Laurie , ` This one 's rotten . 
Tell the overseer . ' 
He waited , looking out over the tops of trees . 
All around , strange insects and birdlike creatures flew . 
In the four years he had been a slave on this world , he had not grown used to the appearance of these life forms . 
They were not all that different from those on Midkemia , but it was the similarities as much as the differences that kept reminding him this was not his home . 
Bees should be yellow-and-black-striped , not bright red . 
Eagles should n't have yellow bands on their wings , nor hawks purple . 
These creatures were not bees , eagles , or hawks , but the resemblance was striking . 
Pug found it easier to accept the stranger creatures of Kelewan than these . 
The six-legged needra , the domesticated beast of burden that looked like some sort of bovine with two extra stumpy legs , or the cho-ja , the insectoid creature who served the Tsurani and could speak their language : these he had come to find familiar . 
But each time he glimpsed a creature from the corner of his eye and turned , expecting it to be Midkemian only to find it was not , then the despair would strike . 
Laurie 's voice brought him from his reverie . 
` The overseer comes . ' 
Pug swore . 
If the overseer had to get himself dirty by wading in the water , then he would be in a foul mood -- which could mean beatings , or a reduction in the chronically meager food . 
He would already be angered by the delay in the cutting . 
A family of burrowers , beaverlike six - legged creatures , had made themselves at home in the roots of the great trees . 
They would gnaw the tender roots and the trees would sicken and die . 
The soft , pulpy wood would turn sour , then watery , and after a while the tree would collapse from within . 
Several burrower tunnels had been poisoned , but the damage had already been done to the trees . 
A rough voice , swearing mightily while its owner splashed through the swamp , announced the arrival of the overseer , Nogamu . 
He himself was a slave , but he had attained the highest rank a slave could rise to , and while he could never hope to be free , he had many privileges and could order soldiers or freemen placed under his command . 
A young soldier came walking behind , a look of mild amusement on his face . 
He was clean-shaven in the manner of a Tsurani freeman , and as he looked up at Pug , the slave could get a good look at him . 
He had the high cheekbones and nearly black eyes that so many Tsurani possessed . 
His dark eyes caught sight of Pug , and he seemed to nod slightly . 
His blue armor was of a type unknown to Pug , but with the strange Tsurani military organization , that was not surprising . 
Every family , demesne , area , town , city , and province appeared to have its own army . 
How they all related one to another within the Empire was beyond Pug 's understanding . 
The overseer stood at the base of the free , his short robe held above the water . 
He growled like the bear he resembled and shouted up at Pug , ` What 's this about another rotten tree ? ' 
Pug spoke the Tsurani language better than any Midkemian in the camp , for he had been there longer than all but a few old Tsurani slaves . 
He shouted down , ` It smells of rot . 
We should re-rig another and leave this one alone . 
Slave Master . ' 
The overseer shook his fist . 
` You are all lazy . 
There is nothing wrong with this tree . 
It is fine . 
You only want to keep from working . 
Now cut it ! ' 
Pug sighed . 
There was no arguing with the Bear , as all the Midkemian slaves called Nogamu . 
He was obviously upset about something , and the slaves would pay the price . 
Pug started hacking through the upper section , and it soon fell to the ground . 
The smell of rot was thick , and Pug removed the ropes quickly . 
Just as the last length was coiled around his waist , a splitting sound came from directly in front of him . 
` It falls ! ' 
he shouted down to the slaves standing in the water below . 
Without hesitation they all ran . 
The cry of ` falls ' was never ignored . 
The bole of the tree was splitting down the middle now that the top had been cut away . 
While this was not common , if a tree was far enough gone for the pulp to have lost its strength , any flaw in the bark could cause it to split under its own weight . 
The tree 's branches would pull the halves away from each other . 
Had Pug been tied to the bole , the ropes would have cut him in half before they snapped . 
Pug gauged the direction of the fall , then as the half he stood upon started to move , he launched himself away from it . 
He hit the water flat , back first , trying to let the two feet of water break his fall as much as possible . 
The blow from the water was immediately followed by the harder impact with the ground . 
The bottom was mostly mud , so there was little damage done . 
The air in his lungs exploded from his mouth when he struck , and his senses reeled for a moment . 
He retained enough presence of mind to sit up and gasped a deep lungful of air . 
Suddenly a heavy weight hit him across the stomach , knocking the wind from him and pushing his head back underwater . 
He struggled to move and found a large branch across his stomach . 
He could barely get his face out of the water to get air . 
His lungs burned and he breathed without control . 
Water came pouring down his windpipe , and he started to choke . 
Coughing and sputtering , he tried to keep calm but felt panic rise within him . 
He frantically pushed at the weight across him but could n't move it . 
Abruptly he found his head above water ; Laurie said , ` Spit , Pug ! 
Get the muck out of your lungs , or you 'll get lung fever . ' 
Pug coughed and spit . 
With Laurie holding his head , he coutd catch his breath . 
Laurie shouted , ` Grab this branch . 
I 'll pull him out from under . ' 
Several slaves splashed over , sweat beading their bodies . 
They reached underwater and seized the branch . 
Heaving , they managed to move it slightly , but Laurie could n't drag Pug out . 
` Bring axes ; we 'll have to cut the branch from the tree . ' 
Other slaves were starting to bring axes over when Nogamu shouted , ` No . 
Leave him . 
We have no time for this . 
There are trees to cut . ' 
Laurie nearly screamed at him , ` We ca n't leave him ! 
He 'll drown ! ' 
The overseer crossed over and struck Laurie across the face with a lash . 
It cut deep into the singer 's cheek , but he did n't let go of his friend 's head . 
` Back to work , slave . 
You 'll be beaten tonight for speaking to me that way . 
There are others who can top . 
Now , let him go ! ' 
He struck Laurie again . 
Laurie winced , but held Pug 's head above water . 
Nogamu raised his lash for a third blow , but was halted by a voice from behind . 
` Cut the slave from under the branch . ' 
Laurie saw the speaker was the young soldier who had accompanied the slave master . 
The overseer whirled about , unaccustomed to having his orders ques - tioned . 
When he saw who had spoken , he bit back the words that were on his lips . 
Bowing his head , he said , ` My lord 's will . ' 
He signaled for the slaves with the axes to cut Pug loose , and in short order Pug was out from under the branch . 
Laurie carried him over to where the young soldier stood . 
Pug coughed the last water from out of his lungs and gasped , ' I thank the master for my life . ' 
The man said nothing , but when the overseer ap - proached , directed his remarks to him . 
` The slave was right , and you were not . 
The tree was rotten . 
It is not proper for you to punish him for your bad judgment and ill-temper . 
I should have you beaten , but will not spare the time for it . 
The work goes slowly , and my father is displeased . ' 
Nogamu bowed his head . ' 
I lose much face in my lord 's sight . 
May I have his permission to kill myself ? ' 
` No . 
It is too much honor . 
Return to work . ' 
The overseer 's face grew red in silent shame and rage . 
Raising his lash , he pointed at Laurie and Pug . 
` You two , bac to work . ' 
Laurie stood , and Pug tried . 
His knees were wobbly from his near-drowning , but he managed to stand after a few attempts . 
` These two shall be excused work the rest of the day , ' the young lord said . 
` This one ' -- he pointed to Pug -- ` is of little use . 
The other must dress those cuts you gave him , or festering will start . ' 
He turned to a guard . 
` Take them back to camp and see to their needs . ' 
Pug was grateful , not so much for himself as for Laurie . 
With a little rest . 
Pug could have returned to work , but an open wound in the swamp was a death warrant as ; 1 often as not . 
Infections came quickly in this hot , dirty  place , and there were few ways of dealing with them . 
• They followed the guard . 
As they left . 
Pug could see the slave master watching them with naked hatred in his eyes . 
There was a creaking of floorboards and Pug came instantly awake . 
His slave-bred wariness told him that the sound did n't belong in the hut during the dead of night . 
Through the gloom , footfalls could be heard coming closer , then they stopped at the foot of his pallet . 
From the next pallet , he could hear Laurie 's sharp intake of breath , and he knew the minstrel was awake also . 
Probably half the slaves had been awakened by the intruder . 
The stranger hesitated over something , and Pug waited , tense with uncertainty . 
There was a grunt , and without hesita-B tion . 
Pug rolled off his mat . 
A weight came crashing down ,  and Pug could hear a dull thud as a dagger struck where his chest had been only moments before . 
Suddenly the room exploded with activity . 
Slaves were shouting , and could be heard running for the door . 
Pug felt hands reach for him in the dark , and a sharp pain exploded across his chest . 
He reached blindly for his assailant and grappled with him for the blade . 
Another slash , and his right hand was cut across the palm . 
Abruptly the attacker stopped moving , and Pug became aware that a third body was atop the would-be assassin . 
Soldiers rushed into the hut , carrying lanterns , and Pug could see Laurie lying across the still body of Nogamu . 
The Bear was still breathing , but from the way the dagger protruded from his ribs , not for long . 
The young soldier who had saved Pug 's and Laurie 's lives entered and the others made way for him . 
He stood over the three combatants and simply asked , ` Is he dead ? ' 
The overseer 's eyes opened and in a faint whisper he said , ' I live , lord . 
But I die by the blade . ' 
A weak but defiant smile showed on his sweat-drenched face . 
The young soldier 's expression betrayed no emotion , but his eyes looked as if ablaze . ' 
I think not , ' he said softly . 
He turned to two of the soldiers in the room . 
` Take him outside at once and hang him . 
There will be no honors for his clan to sing . 
Leave the body there for the insects . 
It shall be a warning that I am not to be disobeyed . 
Go . ' 
The dying man 's face paled , and his lips quivered . 
` No , master . 
I pray , leave me to die by the blade . 
A few minutes longer . ' 
Bloody foam appeared at the corner of his mouth . 
Two husky soldiers reached down for Nogamu and , with little thought for his pain , dragged him outside . 
He could be heard wailing the entire way . 
The amount of strength left in his voice was amazing , as if his fear of the rope had awakened some deep reserve . 
They stood in frozen tableau until the sound was cut off in a strangled cry . 
The young officer then turned to Pug and Laurie . 
Pug sat , blood running from the long , shallow gash across his chest . 
He held his injured hand in the other . 
It was deeply cut , and his fingers would n't move . 
` Bring your wounded friend , ' the young soldier commanded Laurie . 
Laurie helped Pug to his feet and they followed the officer out of the slave hut . 
He led them across the compound to his own quarters and ordered them to enter . 
Once inside , he instructed a guard to send for the camp physician . 
He had them stand in silence until the physician arrived . 
He was an old Tsurani , dressed in the robes of one of their gods , which one the Midkemians could n't tell . 
He inspected Pug 's wounds and judged the chest wound superficial . 
The hand , he said , would be another matter . 
` The cut is deep , and the muscles and tendons have been cut . 
It will heal , but there will be a loss of movement and little strength for gripping . 
He most likely will be fit for only light duty . ' 
The soldier nodded , a peculiar expression on his face : a mixture of disgust and impatience . 
` Very well . 
Dress the wounds , and leave us . ' 
The physician set about cleaning the wounds . 
He took a score of stitches in the hand , bandaged it , admonished Pug to keep it clean , and left . 
Pug ignored the pain , easing his mind with an old mental exercise . 
After the physician was gone , the soldier studied the two slaves before him . 
` By law , I should have you hung for killing the slave master . ' 
They said nothing . 
They would remain silent until commanded to speak . 
` But as I hung the slave master , I am free to keep you alive , should it suit my purpose . 
I can simply have you punished for wounding him . ' 
He paused . 
` Consider yourselves punished . ' 
With a wave of his hand he said , ` Leave me , but return here at daybreak . 
I have to decide what to do with you . ' 
They left , feeling fortunate , for under most circum - stances they would now be hanging next to the former slave master . 
As they crossed the compound , Laurie said , ' I wonder what that was about ? ' 
Pug responded , ' I hurt too much to wonder why . 
I 'm just thankful that we will see tomorrow . ' 
Laurie said nothing until they reached the slave hut . ' 
I think the young lord has something up his sleeve . ' 
` Whatever . 
I have long since given up trying to understand our masters . 
That 's why I 've stayed alive so long , Laurie . 
I just do what I 'm told to , and I endure . ' 
Pug pointed to the tree where the former overseer 's body could be seen in the pale moonlight -- only the small moon was out tonight . 
` It 's much too easy to end up like that . ' 
Laurie nodded . 
` Perhaps you 're right . 
I still think about escape . ' 
Pug laughed , a short , bitter sound . 
` Where , singer ? 
Where could you run ? 
Toward the rift and ten thousand Tsurani ? ' 
Laurie said nothing . 
They returned to their pallets and tried to sleep in the humid heat . 
The young officer sat upon a pile of cushions , Tsurani fashion . 
He sent the guard who had accompanied Pug and Laurie away , then motioned for the two slaves to sit . 
They did so hesitantly , for a slave was not usually permitted to sit in a master 's presence . ' 
I am Hokanu , of the Shinzawai . 
My father owns this camp , ' he said without preamble . 
` He is deeply dissatis - fied with the harvest this year . 
He has sent me to see what can be done . 
Now I have no overseer to manage the work , because a foolish man blamed you for his own stupidity . 
What am I to do ? ' 
They said nothing , for they were not sure if the question was rhetorical . 
He asked , ` You have been here , how long ? ' 
Pug and Laurie answered in turn . 
He considered the answers , then said , ` You ' -- pointing at Laurie -- ` are noth - ing unusual , save you speak our tongue better than most barbarians , all things considered . 
But you ' -- pointing at Pug -- ` have stayed alive longer than most of your stiff - necked countrymen and also speak our language well . 
You might even pass for a peasant from a remote province . ' 
They sat still , unsure of what Hokanu was leading up to . 
Pug realized with a shock that he was probably older by a year or two than this young lord . 
He was young for such power . 
The ways of the Tsurani were very strange . 
In Crydee he would still be an apprentice , or if noble , continuing his education in statecraft . 
` How do you speak so well ? ' 
he asked of Pug . 
` Master , I was among the first captured and brought here . 
There were only seven of us among so many Tsurani slaves . 
We learned to survive . 
After some time , I was the only one left . 
The others died of the burning fever or festering wounds , or were killed by the guards . 
There were none for me to talk with who spoke my own language . 
No other countryman came to this camp for over a year . ' 
The officer nodded , then to Laurie said , ` And you ? ' 
` Master , I am a singer , a minstrel in my own land . 
It is our custom to travel broadly , and we must learn many tongues . 
I have also a good ear for music . 
Your language is what is called a tone language on my world ; words with the same sound save for the pitch with which they are spoken have different meanings . 
We have several such tongues to the south of our Kingdom . 
I leam quickly . ' 
A glimmering appeared in the eyes of the soldier . 
` It is good to know these things . ' 
He lapsed deep into thought . 
After a moment he nodded to himself . 
` There are many considerations that fashion a man 's fortune , slaves . ' 
He smiled , looking more like a boy than a man . 
` This camp is a shambles . 
I am to prepare a report for my father , the Lord of the Shinzawai . 
I think I know what the problems are . ' 
He pointed at Pug . ' 
