PART ONE THE SURVIVOR OF HATHSIN I consider myself to be a man of principle . 
But , what man does not ? 
Even the cutthroat , I have noticed , considers his actions `` moral '' after a fashion . 
Perhaps another person , reading of my life , would name me a religious tyrant . 
He could call me arrogant . 
What is to make that man 's opinion any less valid than my own ? 
I guess it all comes down to one fact : In the end , I 'm the one with the armies . 
1 ASH FELL FROM THE SKY . 
Vin watched the downy flakes drift through the air . 
Leisurely . 
Careless . 
Free . 
The puffs of soot fell like black snowflakes , descending upon the dark city of Luthadel . 
They drifted in corners , blowing in the breeze and curling in tiny whirlwinds over the cobblestones . 
They seemed so uncaring . 
What would that be like ? 
Vin sat quietly in one of the crew 's watch-holes -- a hidden alcove built into the bricks on the side of the safe house . 
From within it , a crewmember could watch the street for signs of danger . 
Vin was n't on duty ; the watch-hole was simply one of the few places where she could find solitude.And Vin liked solitude . 
When you 're alone , no one can betray you . 
Reen 's words . 
Her brother had taught her so many things , then had reinforced them by doing what he 'd always promised he would -- by betraying her himself . 
It 's the only way you 'll learn . 
Anyone will betray you , Vin . 
Anyone . 
The ash continued to fall . 
Sometimes , Vin imagined she was like the ash , or the wind , or the mist itself . 
A thing without thought , capable of simply being , not thinking , caring , or hurting . 
Then she could be ... free . 
She heard shuffling a short distance away , then the trapdoor at the back of the small chamber snapped open . 
`` Vin ! '' 
Ulef said , sticking his head into the room . 
`` There you are ! 
Camon 's been searching for you for a half hour . '' 
That 's kind of why I hid in the first place . 
`` You should get going , '' Ulef said . 
`` The job 's almost ready to begin . '' 
Ulef was a gangly boy . 
Nice , after his own fashion -- naive , if one who had grown up in the underworld could ever really be called `` naive . '' 
Of course , that did n't mean he would n't betray her . 
Betrayal had nothing to do with friendship ; it was a simple fact of survival . 
Life was harsh on the streets , and if a skaa thief wanted to keep from being caught and executed , he had to be practical . 
And ruthlessness was the very most practical of emotions . 
Another of Reen 's sayings . 
`` Well ? '' 
Ulef asked . 
`` You should go . 
Camon 's mad . '' 
When is he not ? 
However , Vin nodded , scrambling out of the cramped -- yet comforting -- confines of the watch-hole . 
She brushed past Ulef and hopped out of the trapdoor , moving into a hallway , then a run-down pantry . 
The room was one of many at the back of the store that served as a front for the safe house . 
The crew 's lair itself was hidden in a tunneled stone cavern beneath the building . 
She left the building through a back door , Ulef trailing behind her . 
The job would happen a few blocks away , in a richer section of town . 
It was an intricate job -- one of the most complex Vin had ever seen . 
Assuming Camon was n't caught , the payoff would be great indeed . 
If he was caught ... Well , scamming noblemen and obligators was a very dangerous profession -- but it certainly beat working in the forges or the textile mills . 
Vin exited the alleyway , moving out onto a dark , tenement-lined street in one of the city 's many skaa slums . 
Skaa too sick to work lay huddled in corners and gutters , ash drifting around them . 
Vin kept her head down and pulled up her cloak 's hood against the still falling flakes . 
Free . 
No , I 'll never be free . 
Reen made certain of that when he left . 
`` There you are ! '' 
Camon lifted a squat , fat finger and jabbed it toward her face . 
`` Where were you ? '' 
Vin did n't let hatred or rebellion show in her eyes . 
She simply looked down , giving Camon what he expected to see . 
There were other ways to be strong . 
That lesson she had learned on her own . 
Camon growled slightly , then raised his hand and backhanded her across the face . 
The force of the blow threw Vin back against the wall , and her cheek blazed with pain . 
She slumped against the wood , but bore the punishment silently . 
Just another bruise . 
She was strong enough to deal with it . 
She 'd done so before . 
`` Listen , '' Camon hissed . 
`` This is an important job . 
It 's worth thousands of boxings -- worth more than you a hundred times over . 
I wo n't have you fouling it up . 
Understand ? '' 
Vin nodded . 
Camon studied her for a moment , his pudgy face red with anger . 
Finally , he looked away , muttering to himself . 
He was annoyed about something -- something more than just Vin . 
Perhaps he had heard about the skaa rebellion several days to the north . 
One of the provincial lords , Themos Tresting , had apparently been murdered , his manor burned to the ground . 
Such disturbances were bad for business ; they made the aristocracy more alert , and less gullible . 
That , in turn , could cut seriously into Camon 's profits . 
He 's looking for someone to punish , Vin though . 
He always gets nervous before a job . 
She looked up at Camon , tasting blood on her lip . 
She must have let some of her confidence show , because he glanced at her out of the corner of his eye , and his expression darkened . 
He raised his hand , as if to strike her again . 
Vin used up a bit of her Luck . 
She expended just a smidgen ; she 'd need the rest for the job . 
She directed the Luck at Camon , calming his nervousness . 
The crewleader paused -- oblivious of Vin 's touch , yet feeling its effects nonetheless . 
He stood for a moment ; then he sighed , turning away and lowering his hand . 
Vin wiped her lip as Camon waddled away . 
The thiefmaster looked very convincing in his nobleman 's suit . 
It was as rich a costume as Vin had ever seen -- it had a white shirt overlaid by a deep green vest with engraved gold buttons . 
The black suit coat was long , after the current fashion , and he wore a matching black hat . 
His fingers sparkled with rings , and he even carried a fine dueling cane . 
Indeed , Camon did an excellent job of imitating a nobleman ; when it came to playing a role , there were few thieves more competent than Camon . 
Assuming he could keep his temper under control . 
The room itself was less impressive . 
Vin pulled herself to her feet as Camon began to snap at some of the other crewmembers . 
They had rented one of the suites at the top of a local hotel . 
Not too lavish -- but that was the idea . 
Camon was going to be playing the part of `` Lord Jedue , '' a country nobleman who had hit upon hard financial times and come to Luthadel to get some final , desperate contracts . 
The main room had been transformed into a sort of audience chamber , set with a large desk for Camon to sit behind , the walls decorated with cheap pieces of art . 
Two men stood beside the desk , dressed in formal stewards ' clothing ; they would play the part of Camon 's manservants . 
`` What is this ruckus ? '' 
a man asked , entering the room . 
He was tall , dressed in a simple gray shirt and a pair of slacks , with a thin sword tied at his waist . 
Theron was the other crewleader -- this particular scam was actually his . 
He 'd brought in Camon as a partner ; he 'd needed someone to play Lord Jedue , and everyone knew that Camon was one of the best . 
Camon looked up . 
`` Hum ? 
Ruckus ? 
Oh , that was just a minor discipline problem . 
Do n't bother yourself , Theron . '' 
Camon punctuated his remark with a dismissive wave of the hand -- there was a reason he played such a good aristocrat . 
He was arrogant enough that he could have been from one of the Great Houses . 
Theron 's eyes narrowed . 
Vin knew what the man was probably thinking : He was deciding how risky it would be to put a knife in Camon 's fat back once the scam was over . 
Eventually , the taller crewleader looked away from Camon , glancing at Vin . 
`` Who 's this ? '' 
he asked . 
`` Just a member of my crew , '' Camon said . 
`` I thought we did n't need anyone else . '' 
`` Well , we need her , '' Camon said . 
`` Ignore her . 
My end of the operation is none of your concern . '' 
Theron eyed Vin , obviously noting her bloodied lip . 
She glanced away . 
Theron 's eyes lingered on her , however , running down the length of her body . 
She wore a simple white buttoned shirt and a pair of overalls . 
Indeed , she was hardly enticing ; scrawny with a youthful face , she supposedly did n't even look her sixteen years . 
Some men preferred such women , however . 
She considered using a bit of Luck on him , but eventually he turned away . 
`` The obligator is nearly here , '' Theron said . 
`` Are you ready ? '' 
Camon rolled his eyes , settling his bulk down into the chair behind the desk . 
`` Everything is perfect . 
Leave me be , Theron ! 
Go back to your room and wait . '' 
Theron frowned , then spun and walked from the room , muttering to himself . 
Vin scanned the room , studying the decor , the servants , the atmosphere . 
Finally , she made her way to Camon 's desk . 
The crewleader sat rifling through a stack of papers , apparently trying to decide which ones to put out on the desktop . 
`` Camon , '' Vin said quietly , `` the servants are too fine . '' 
Camon frowned , looking up . 
`` What is that you 're babbling ? '' 
`` The servants , '' Vin repeated , still speaking in a soft whisper . 
`` Lord Jedue is supposed to be desperate . 
He 'd have rich clothing left over from before , but he would n't be able to afford such rich servants . 
He 'd use skaa . '' 
Camon glared at her , but he paused . 
Physically , there was little difference between noblemen and skaa . 
The servants Camon had appointed , however , were dressed as minor noblemen -- they were allowed to wear colorful vests , and they stood a little confidently . 
`` The obligator has to think that you 're nearly impoverished , '' Vin said . 
`` Pack the room with a lot of skaa servants instead . '' 
`` What do you know ? '' 
Camon said , scowling at her . 
`` Enough . '' 
She immediately regretted the word ; it sounded too rebellious . 
Camon raised a bejeweled hand , and Vin braced herself for another slap . 
She could n't afford to use up any more Luck . 
She had precious little remaining anyway . 
However , Camon did n't hit her . 
Instead , he sighed and rested a pudgy hand on her shoulder . 
`` Why do you insist on provoking me , Vin ? 
You know the debts your brother left when he ran away . 
Do you realize that a less merciful man than myself would have sold you to the whoremasters long ago ? 
How would you like that , serving in some nobleman 's bed until he grew tired of you and had you executed ? '' 
Vin looked down at her feet . 
Camon 's grip grew tight , his fingers pinching her skin where neck met shoulder , and she gasped in pain despite herself . 
He grinned at the reaction . 
`` Honestly , I do n't know why I keep you , Vin , '' he said , increasing the pressure of his grip . 
`` I should have gotten rid of you months ago , when your brother betrayed me . 
I suppose I just have too kindly a heart . '' 
He finally released her , then pointed for her to stand over by the side of the room , next to a tall indoor plant . 
She did as ordered , orienting herself so she had a good view of the entire room . 
As soon as Camon looked away , she rubbed her shoulder . 
Just another pain . 
I can deal with pain . 
Camon sat for a few moments . 
Then , as expected , he waved to the two `` servants '' at his side . 
`` You two ! '' 
he said . 
`` You 're dressed too richly . 
Go put on something that makes you look like skaa servants instead -- and bring back six more men with you when you come . '' 
Soon , the room was filled as Vin had suggested . 
The obligator arrived a short time later . 
Vin watched Prelan Laird step haughtily into the room . 
Shaved bald like all obligators , he wore a set of dark gray robes . 
The Ministry tattoos around his eyes identified him as a prelan , a senior bureaucrat in the Ministry 's Canton of Finance . 
A set of lesser obligators trailed behind him , their eye tattoos far less intricate . 
Camon rose as the prelan entered , a sign of respect -- something even the highest of Great House noblemen would show to an obligator of Laird 's rank . 
Laird gave no bow or acknowledgment of his own , instead striding forward and taking the seat in front of Camon 's desk . 
One of the crewmen impersonating a servant rushed forward , bringing chilled wine and fruit for the obligator . 
Laird picked at the fruit , letting the servant stand obediently , holding the platter of food as if he were a piece of furniture . 
`` Lord Jedue , '' Laird finally said . 
`` I am glad we finally have the opportunity to meet . '' 
`` As am I , Your Grace , '' Camon said . 
`` Why is it , again , that you were unable to come to the Canton building , instead requiring that I visit you here ? '' 
`` My knees , Your Grace , '' Camon said . 
`` My physicians recommend that I travel as little as possible . '' 
And you were rightly apprehensive about being drawn into a Ministry stronghold , Vin thought . 
`` I see , '' Laird said . 
`` Bad knees . 
An unfortunate attribute in a man who deals in transportation . '' 
`` I do n't have to go on the trips , Your Grace , '' Camon said , bowing his head . 
`` Just organize them . '' 
Good , Vin thought . 
Make sure you remain subservient , Camon . 
You need to seem desperate . 
Vin needed this scam to succeed . 
Camon threatened her and he beat her -- but he considered her a good-luck charm . 
She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection . 
That made her valuable -- and Reen had always said that the surest way to stay alive in the underworld was to make yourself indispensable . 
`` I see , '' Laird said again . 
`` Well , I fear that our meeting has come too late for your purposes . 
The Canton of Finance has already voted on your proposal . '' 
`` So soon ? '' 
Camon asked with genuine surprise . 
`` Yes , '' Laird replied , taking a sip of his wine , still not dismissing the servant . 
`` We have decided not to accept your contract . '' 
Camon sat for a moment , stunned . 
`` I 'm sorry to hear that , Your Grace . '' 
Laird came to meet you , Vin thought . 
That means he 's still in a position to negotiate . 
`` Indeed , '' Camon continued , seeing what Vin had . 
`` That is especially unfortunate , as I was ready to make the Ministry an even better offer . '' 
Laird raised a tattooed eyebrow . 
`` I doubt it will matter . 
There is an element of the Council who feels that the Canton would receive better service if we found a more stable house to transport our people . '' 
`` That would be a grave mistake , '' Camon said smoothly . 
`` Let us be frank , Your Grace . 
We both know that this contract is House Jedue 's last chance . 
Now that we 've lost the Farwan deal , we can not afford to run our canal boats to Luthadel anymore . 
Without the Ministry 's patronage , my house is financially doomed . '' 
`` This is doing very little to persuade me , Your Lordship , '' the obligator said . 
`` Is n't it ? '' 
Camon asked . 
`` Ask yourself this , Your Grace -- who will serve you better ? 
Will it be the house that has dozens of contracts to divide its attention , or the house that views your contract as its last hope ? 
The Canton of Finance will not find a more accommodating partner than a desperate one . 
Let my boats be the ones that bring your acolytes down from the north -- let my soldiers escort them -- and you will not be disappointed . '' 
Good , Vin thought . 
`` I ... see , '' the obligator said , now troubled . 
`` I would be willing to give you an extended contract , locked in at the price of fifty boxings a head per trip , Your Grace . 
Your acolytes would be able to travel our boats at their leisure , and would always have the escorts they need . '' 
The obligator raised an eyebrow . 
`` That 's half the former fee . '' 
`` I told you , '' Camon said . 
`` We 're desperate . 
My house needs to keep its boats running . 
Fifty boxings will not make us a profit , but that does n't matter . 
Once we have the Ministry contract to bring us stability , we can find other contracts to fill our coffers . '' 
Laird looked thoughtful . 
It was a fabulous deal -- one that might ordinarily have been suspicious . 
However , Camon 's presentation created the image of a house on the brink of financial collapse . 
The other crewleader , Theron , had spent five years building , scamming , and finagling to create this moment . 
The Ministry would be remiss not to consider the opportunity . 
Laird was realizing just that . 
The Steel Ministry was not just the force of bureaucracy and legal authority in the Final Empire -- it was like a noble house unto itself . 
The more wealth it had , the better its own mercantile contracts , the more leverage the various Ministry Cantons had with each other -- and with the noble houses . 
Laird was still obviously hesitant , however . 
Vin could see the look in his eyes , the suspicion she knew well . 
He was not going to take the contract . 
Now , Vin thought . 
It 's my turn . 
Vin used her Luck on Laird . 
She reached out tentatively -- not even really sure what she was doing , or why she could even do it . 
Yet her touch was instinctive , trained through years of subtle practice . 
She 'd been ten years old before she 'd realized that other people could n't do what she could . 
She pressed against Laird 's emotions , dampening them . 
He became less suspicious , less afraid . 
Docile . 
His worries melted away , and Vin could see a calm sense of control begin to assert itself in his eyes . 
Yet , Laird still seemed slightly uncertain . 
Vin pushed harder . 
He cocked his head , looking thoughtful . 
He opened his mouth to speak , but she pushed against him again , desperately using up her last pinch of Luck . 
He paused again . 
`` Very well , '' he finally said . 
`` I will take this new proposal to the Council . 
Perhaps an agreement can still be reached . '' 
If men read these words , let them know that power is a heavy burden . 
Seek not to be bound by its chains . 
The Terris prophecies say that I will have the power to save the world . 
They hint , however , that I will have the power to destroy it as well . 
