Always the ravens . 
They settled on the gables of the church even before the injured became the dead . 
Even before Rike had finished taking fingers from hands , and rings from fingers . 
I leaned back against the gallowspost and nodded to the birds , a dozen of them in a black line , wise-eyed and watching . 
The town-square ran red . 
Blood in the gutters , blood on the flagstones , blood in the fountain . 
The corpses posed as corpses do . 
Some comical , reaching for the sky with missing fingers , some peaceful , coiled about their wounds . 
Flies rose above the wounded as they struggled . 
This way and that , some blind , some sly , all betrayed by their buzzing entourage . 
`` Water ! 
Water ! '' 
It 's always water with the dying . 
Strange , it 's killing that gives me a thirst . 
And that was Mabberton . 
Two hundred dead farmers lying with their scythes and axes . 
You know , I warned them that we do this for a living . 
I said it to their leader , Bovid Tor . 
I gave them that chance , I always do . 
But no . 
They wanted blood and slaughter . 
And they got it . 
War , my friends , is a thing of beauty . 
Those as says otherwise are losing . 
If I 'd bothered to go over to old Bovid , propped up against the fountain with his guts in his lap , he 'd probably take a contrary view . 
But look where disagreeing got him . 
`` Shit-poor farm maggots . '' 
Rike discarded a handful of fingers over Bovid 's open belly . 
He came to me , holding out his takings , as if it was my fault . 
`` Look ! 
One gold ring . 
One ! 
A whole village and one fecking gold ring . 
I 'd like to set the bastards up and knock ’em down again . 
Fecking bog-farmers . '' 
He would too : he was an evil bastard , and greedy with it . 
I held his eye . 
`` Settle down , Brother Rike . 
There 's more than one kind of gold in Mabberton . '' 
I gave him my warning look . 
His cursing stole the magic from the scene ; besides , I had to be stern with him . 
Rike was always on the edge after a battle , wanting more . 
I gave him a look that told him I had more . 
More than he could handle . 
He grumbled , stowed his bloody ring , and thrust his knife back in his belt . 
Makin came up then and flung an arm about each of us , clapping gauntlet to shoulder-plate . 
If Makin had a skill , then smoothing things over was it . 
`` Brother Jorg is right , Little Rikey . 
There 's treasure aplenty to be found . '' 
He was wont to call Rike `` Little Rikey , '' on account of him being a head taller than any of us and twice as wide . 
Makin always told jokes . 
He 'd tell them to those as he killed , if they gave him time . 
Liked to see them go out with a smile . 
`` What treasure ? '' 
Rike wanted to know , still surly . 
`` When you get farmers , what else do you always get , Little Rikey ? '' 
Makin raised his eyebrows all suggestive . 
Rike lifted his visor , treating us to his ugly face . 
Well , brutal more than ugly . 
I think the scars improved him . 
`` Cows ? '' 
Makin pursed his lips . 
I never liked his lips , too thick and fleshy , but I forgave him that , for his joking and his deathly work with that flail of his . 
`` Well , you can have the cows , Little Rikey . 
Me , I 'm going to find a farmer 's daughter or three , before the others use them all up . '' 
They went off then , Rike doing that laugh of his , `` hur , hur , hur , '' as if he was trying to cough a fishbone out . 
I watched them force the door to Bovid 's place opposite the church , a fine house , high roofed with wooden slates and a little flower garden in front . 
Bovid followed them with his eyes , but he could n't turn his head . 
I looked at the ravens , I watched Gemt and his half-wit brother , Maical , taking heads , Maical with the cart and Gemt with the axe . 
A thing of beauty , I tell you . 
At least to look at . 
I 'll agree war smells bad . 
But we 'd torch the place soon enough and the stink would all turn to wood-smoke . 
Gold rings ? 
I needed no more payment . 
`` Boy ! '' 
Bovid called out , his voice all hollow like , and weak . 
I went to stand before him , leaning on my sword , tired in my arms and legs all of a sudden . 
`` Best speak your piece quickly , farmer . 
Brother Gemt 's a-coming with his axe . 
Chop-chop . '' 
He did n't seem too worried . 
It 's hard to worry a man so close to the worm-feast . 
Still , it irked me that he held me so lightly and called me `` boy . '' 
`` Do you have daughters , farmer ? 
Hiding in the cellar maybe ? 
Old Rike will sniff them out . '' 
Bovid looked up sharp at that , pained and sharp . 
`` H-how old are you , boy ? '' 
Again the `` boy . '' 
`` Old enough to slit you open like a fat purse , '' I said , getting angry now . 
I do n't like to get angry . 
It makes me angry . 
I do n't think he caught even that . 
I do n't think he even knew it was me that opened him up not half an hour before . 
`` Fifteen summers , no more . 
Could n't be more ... '' His words came slow , from blue lips in a white face . 
Out by two , I would have told him , but he 'd gone past hearing . 
The cart creaked up behind me , and Gemt came along with his axe dripping . 
`` Take his head , '' I told them . 
`` Leave his fat belly for the ravens . '' 
Fifteen ! 
I 'd hardly be fifteen and rousting villages . 
By the time fifteen came around , I 'd be King ! 
Some people are born to rub you the wrong way . 
Brother Gemt was born to rub the world the wrong way . 
