He did n't sound right . 
His footsteps fell more heavily , jauntily , and he whistled . 
A new guy . 
He whistled his way to my office door , then fell silent for a moment . 
Then he laughed . 
Then he knocked . 
I winced . 
My mail comes through the mail slot unless it 's registered . 
I get a really limited selection of registered mail , and it 's never good news . 
I got up out of my office chair and opened the door . 
The new mailman , who looked like a basketball with arms and legs and a sunburned , balding head , was chuckling at the sign on the door glass . 
He glanced at me and hooked a thumb toward the sign . 
` You 're kidding , right ? ' 
I read the sign -LRB- people change it occasionally -RRB- , and shook my head . 
` No , I 'm serious . 
Can I have my mail , please . ' 
` So , uh . 
Like parties , shows , stuff like that ? ' 
He looked past me , as though he expected to see a white tiger , or possibly some skimpily clad assistants prancing around my one-room office . 
I sighed , not in the mood to get mocked again , and reached for the mail he held in his hand . 
` No , not like that . 
I do n't do parties . ' 
He held on to it , his head tilted curiously . 
` So what ? 
Some kinda fortune-teller ? 
Cards and crystal balls and things ? ' 
` No , ' I told him . 
` I 'm not a psychic . ' 
I tugged at the mail . 
He held on to it . 
` What are you , then ? ' 
` What 's the sign on the door say ? ' 
` It says ` Harry Dresden . 
Wizard . ' ' 
` That 's me , ' I confirmed . 
` An actual wizard ? ' 
he asked , grinning , as though I should let him in on the joke . 
` Spells and potions ? 
Demons and incantations ? 
Subtle and quick to anger ? ' 
` Not so subtle . ' 
I jerked the mail out of his hand and looked pointedly at his clipboard . 
` Can I sign for my mail please . ' 
The new mailman 's grin vanished , replaced with a scowl . 
He passed over the clipboard to let me sign for the mail -LRB- another late notice from my landlord -RRB- , and said , ` You 're a nut . 
That 's what you are . ' 
He took his clipboard back , and said , ` You have a nice day , sir . ' 
I watched him go . 
` Typical , ' I muttered , and shut the door . 
My name is Harry Blackstone Copperfield Dresden . 
Conjure by it at your own risk . 
I 'm a wizard . 
I work out of an office in midtown Chicago . 
As far as I know , I 'm the only openly practicing professional wizard in the country . 
You can find me in the yellow pages , under ` Wizards . ' 
Believe it or not , I 'm the only one there . 
My ad looks like this : HARRY DRESDEN-WIZARD Lost Items Found . 
Paranormal Investigations . 
Consulting . 
Advice . 
Reasonable Rates . 
No Love Potions , Endless Purses , Parties , or Other Entertainment You 'd be surprised how many people call just to ask me if I 'm serious . 
But then , if you 'd seen the things I 'd seen , if you knew half of what I knew , you 'd wonder how anyone could not think I was serious . 
The end of the twentieth century and the dawn of the new millennium had seen something of a renaissance in the public awareness of the paranormal . 
Psychics , haunts , vampires-you name it . 
People still did n't take them seriously , but all the things Science had promised us had n't come to pass . 
Disease was still a problem . 
Starvation was still a problem . 
Violence and crime and war were still problems . 
In spite of the advance of technology , things just had n't changed the way everyone had hoped and thought they would . 
Science , the largest religion of the twentieth century , had become somewhat tarnished by images of exploding space shuttles , crack babies , and a generation of complacent Americans who had allowed the television to raise their children . 
People were looking for something-I think they just did n't know what . 
And even though they were once again starting to open their eyes to the world of magic and the arcane that had been with them all the while , they still thought I must be some kind of joke . 
Anyway , it had been a slow month . 
A slow pair of months , actually . 
My rent from February did n't get paid until the tenth of March , and it was looking like it might be even longer until I got caught up for this month . 
My only job had been the previous week , when I 'd gone down to Branson , Missouri , to investigate a country singer 's possibly haunted house . 
It had n't been . 
My client had n't been happy with that answer , and had been even less happy when I suggested he lay off of any intoxicating substances and try to get some exercise and sleep , and see if that did n't help things more than an exorcism . 
I 'd gotten travel expenses plus an hour 's pay , and gone away feeling I had done the honest , righteous , and impractical thing . 
I heard later that he 'd hired a shyster psychic to come in and perform a ceremony with a lot of incense and black lights . 
Some people . 
I finished up my paperback and tossed it into the DONE box . 
There was a pile of read and discarded paperbacks in a cardboard box on one side of my desk , the spines bent and the pages mangled . 
I 'm terribly hard on books . 
I was eyeing the pile of unread books , considering which to start next , given that I had no real work to do , when my phone rang . 
I stared at it in a somewhat surly fashion . 
We wizards are terrific at brooding . 
After the third ring , when I thought I would n't sound a little too eager , I picked up the receiver and said , ` Dresden . ' 
` Oh . 
Is this , um , Harry Dresden ? 
The , ah , wizard ? ' 
Her tone was apologetic , as though she were terribly afraid she would be insulting me . 
No , I thought . 
It 's Harry Dresden the , ah , lizard . 
Harry the wizard is one door down . 
It is the prerogative of wizards to be grumpy . 
It is not , however , the prerogative of freelance consultants who are late on their rent , so instead of saying something smart , I told the woman on the phone , ` Yes , ma'am . 
How can I help you today ? ' 
` I , um , ' she said . 
` I 'm not sure . 
I 've lost something , and I think maybe you could help me . ' 
` Finding lost articles is a specialty , ' I said . 
` What would I be looking for ? ' 
There was a nervous pause . 
` My husband , ' she said . 
She had a voice that was a little hoarse , like a cheerleader who 'd been working a long tournament , but had enough weight of years in it to place her as an adult . 
My eyebrows went up . 
` Ma'am , I 'm not really a missing-persons specialist . 
Have you contacted the police or a private investigator ? ' 
` No , ' she said , quickly . 
` No , they ca n't . 
That is , I have n't . 
Oh dear , this is all so complicated . 
Not something someone can talk about on the phone . 
I 'm sorry to have taken up your time , Mr. Dresden . ' 
` Hold on now , ' I said quickly . 
` I 'm sorry , you did n't tell me your name . ' 
There was that nervous pause again , as though she were checking a sheet of written notes before answering . 
` Call me Monica . ' 
People who know diddly about wizards do n't like to give us their names . 
They 're convinced that if they give a wizard their name from their own lips it could be used against them . 
To be fair , they 're right . 
I had to be as polite and harmless as I could . 
She was about to hang up out of pure indecision , and I needed the job . 
I could probably turn hubby up , if I worked at it . 
` Okay , Monica , ' I told her , trying to sound as melodious and friendly as I could . 
` If you feel your situation is of a sensitive nature , maybe you could come by my office and talk about it . 
If it turns out that I can help you best , I will , and if not , then I can direct you to someone I think can help you better . ' 
I gritted my teeth and pretended I was smiling . 
` No charge . ' 
It must have been the no charge that did it . 
She agreed to come right out to the office , and told me that she would be there in an hour . 
That put her estimated arrival at about two-thirty . 
Plenty of time to go out and get some lunch , then get back to the office to meet her . 
The phone rang again almost the instant I put it down , making me jump . 
I peered at it . 
I do n't trust electronics . 
Anything manufactured after the forties is suspect-and does n't seem to have much liking for me . 
You name it : cars , radios , telephones , TVs , VCRs-none of them seem to behave well for me . 
I do n't even like to use automatic pencils . 
I answered the phone with the same false cheer I had summoned up for Monica Husband-Missing . 
` This is Dresden , may I help you ? ' 
` Harry , I need you at the Madison in the next ten minutes . 
Can you be there ? ' 
The voice on the other end of the line was also a woman 's , cool , brisk , businesslike . 
` Why , Lieutenant Murphy , ' I gushed , overflowing with saccharine , ` It 's good to hear from you , too . 
It 's been so long . 
Oh , they 're fine , fine . 
And your family ? ' 
` Save it , Harry . 
I 've got a couple of bodies here , and I need you to take a look around . ' 
I sobered immediately . 
Karrin Murphy was the director of Special Investigations out of downtown Chicago , a de facto appointee of the Police Commissioner to investigate any crimes dubbed unusual . 
Vampire attacks , troll mauraudings , and faery abductions of children did n't fit in very neatly on a police report-but at the same time , people got attacked , infants got stolen , property was damaged or destroyed . 
And someone had to look into it . 
In Chicago , or pretty much anywhere in Chicagoland , that person was Karrin Murphy . 
I was her library of the supernatural on legs , and a paid consultant for the police department . 
But two bodies ? 
Two deaths by means unknown ? 
I had n't handled anything like that for her before . 
` Where are you ? ' 
I asked her . 
` Madison Hotel on Tenth , seventh floor . ' 
` That 's only a fifteen-minute walk from my office , ' I said . 
` So you can be here in fifteen minutes . 
Good . ' 
` Um , ' I said . 
I looked at the clock . 
Monica No-Last-Name would be here in a little more than forty-five minutes . 
` I 've sort of got an appointment . ' 
` Dresden , I 've sort of got a pair of corpses with no leads and no suspects , and a killer walking around loose . 
Your appointment can wait . ' 
My temper flared . 
It does that occasionally . 
` It ca n't , actually , ' I said . 
` But I 'll tell you what . 
I 'll stroll on over and take a look around , and be back here in time for it . ' 
` Have you had lunch yet ? ' 
she asked . 
` What ? ' 
She repeated the question . 
` No , ' I said . 
` Do n't . ' 
There was a pause , and when she spoke again , there was a sort of greenish tone to her words . 
` It 's bad . ' 
` How bad are we talking here , Murph ? ' 
Her voice softened , and that scared me more than any images of gore or violent death could have . 
Murphy was the original tough girl , and she prided herself on never showing weakness . 
` It 's bad , Harry . 
Please do n't take too long . 
Special Crimes is itching to get their fingers on this one , and I know you do n't like people to touch the scene before you can look around . ' 
` I 'm on the way , ' I told her , already standing and pulling on my jacket . 
` Seventh floor , ' she reminded me . 
` See you there . ' 
` Okay . ' 
I turned off the lights to my office , went out the door , and locked up behind me , frowning . 
I was n't sure how long it was going to take to investigate Murphy 's scene , and I did n't want to miss out on speaking with Monica Ask-Me-No-Questions . 
So I opened the door again , got out a piece of paper and a thumbtack , and wrote : Out briefly . 
Back for appointment at 2:30 . 
Dresden That done , I started down the stairs . 
I rarely use the elevator , even though I 'm on the fifth floor . 
Like I said , I do n't trust machines . 
They 're always breaking down on me just when I need them . 
Besides which . 
If I were someone in this town using magic to kill people two at a time , and I did n't want to get caught , I 'd make sure that I removed the only practicing wizard the police department kept on retainer . 
I liked my odds on the stairwell a lot better than I did in the cramped confines of the elevator . 
Paranoid ? 
Probably . 
But just because you 're paranoid does n't mean that there is n't an invisible demon about to eat your face . 
