Homer The Survivors The lapping of water in his ears . 
That was the first thing . 
The lapping of water , the rustling of trees , the odd click and twitter of a bird . 
Logen opened his eyes a crack . 
Light , blurry bright through leaves . 
This was death ? 
Then why did it hurt so much ? 
His whole left side was throbbing . 
He tried to take a proper breath , choked , coughed up water , spat out mud . 
He groaned , flopped over onto his hands and knees , dragged himself up out of the river , gasping through clenched teeth , rolled onto his back in the moss and slime and rotten sticks at the water 's edge . 
He lay there for a moment , staring up at the grey sky beyond the black branches , breath wheezing in his raw throat . 
`` I am still alive , '' he croaked to himself . 
Still alive , in spite of the best efforts of nature , Shanka , men and beasts . 
Soaking wet and flat on his back , he started to chuckle . 
Reedy , gurgling laughter . 
Say one thing for Logen Ninefingers , say he 's a survivor . 
A cold wind blew across the rotting river bank , and Logen 's laughter slowly died . 
Alive he might be , but staying alive , that was another question . 
He sat up , wincing at the pain . 
He tottered to his feet , leaning against the nearest tree trunk . 
He scraped the dirt out of his nose , his eyes , his ears . 
He pulled up his wet shirt to take a look at the damage . 
His side was covered in bruises from the fall . 
Blue and purple stains all up his ribs . 
Tender to the touch , and no mistake , but it did n't feel like anything was broken . 
His leg was a mess . 
Torn and bloody from the Shanka 's teeth . 
It hurt bad , but his foot still moved well enough , and that was the main thing . 
He 'd need his foot , if he was going to get out of this . 
He still had his knife in the sheath at his belt , and he was mightily glad to see it . 
You could never have too many knives in Logen 's experience , and this was a good one , but the outlook was still bleak . 
He was on his own , in woods crawling with Flatheads . 
He had no idea where he was , but he could follow the river . 
The rivers all flowed north , from the mountains to the cold sea . 
Follow the river southwards , against the current . 
Follow the river and climb up , into the High Places where the Shanka could n't find him . 
That was his only chance . 
It would be cold up there , this time of year . 
Deadly cold . 
He looked down at his bare feet . 
It was just his luck that the Shanka had come while he had his boots off , trimming his blisters . 
No coat either -- he 'd been sitting near the fire . 
Like this , he would n't last a day in the mountains . 
His hands and feet would turn black in the night , and he 'd die bit by bit before he even reached the passes . 
If he did n't starve first . 
`` Shit , '' he muttered . 
He had to go back to the camp . 
He had to hope the Flatheads had moved on , hope they 'd left something behind . 
Something he could use to survive . 
That was an awful lot of hoping , but he had no choice . 
He never had any choices . 
It had started to rain by the time Logen found the place . 
Spitting drops that plastered his hair to his skull , kept his clothes wet through . 
He pressed himself against a mossy trunk and peered out towards the camp , heart pounding , fingers of his right hand curled painful tight around the slippery grip of his knife . 
He saw the blackened circle where the fire had been , half-burned sticks and ash trampled round it . 
He saw the big log Threetrees and Dow had been sitting on when the Flatheads came . 
He saw odd bits of torn and broken gear scattered across the clearing . 
He counted three dead Shanka crumpled on the ground , one with an arrow poking out of its chest . 
Three dead ones , but no sign of any alive . 
That was lucky . 
Just lucky enough to survive , as always . 
Still , they might be back at any moment . 
He had to be quick . 
Logen scuttled out from the trees , casting about on the ground . 
His boots were still there where he 'd left them . 
He snatched them up and dragged them on to his freezing feet , hopping around , almost slipping in his haste . 
His coat was there too , wedged under the log , battered and scarred from ten years of weather and war , torn and stitched back together , missing half a sleeve . 
His pack was lying shapeless in the brush nearby , its contents strewn out down the slope . 
He crouched , breathless , throwing it all back inside . 
A length of rope , his old clay pipe , some strips of dried meat , needle and twine , a dented flask with some liquor still sloshing inside . 
All good . 
All useful . 
There was a tattered blanket snagged on a branch , wet and half caked in grime . 
Logen pulled it up , and grinned . 
His old , battered cook pot was underneath . 
Lying on its side , kicked off the fire in the fight maybe . 
He grabbed hold of it with both hands . 
It felt safe , familiar , dented and blackened from years of hard use . 
He 'd had that pot a long time . 
It had followed him all through the wars , across the North and back again . 
They had all cooked in it together , out on the trail , all eaten out of it . 
Forley , Grim , the Dogman , all of them . 
Logen looked over the campsite again . 
Three dead Shanka , but none of his people . 
Maybe they were still out there . 
Maybe if he took a risk , tried to look -- `` No . '' 
He said it quietly , under his breath . 
He knew better than that . 
There had been a lot of Flatheads . 
An awful lot . 
He had no idea how long he 'd lain on the river bank . 
Even if a couple of the boys had got away , the Shanka would be hunting them , hunting them down in the forests . 
They were nothing but corpses now , for sure , scattered across the high valleys . 
All Logen could do was make for the mountains , and try to save his own sorry life . 
You have to be realistic . 
Have to be , however much it hurts . 
`` It 's just you and me now , '' said Logen as he stuffed the pot into his pack and threw it over his shoulder . 
He started to limp off , as fast as he could . 
Uphill , towards the river , towards the mountains . 
Just the two of them . 
Him and the pot . 
They were the only survivors . 
