We must blame ourselves for misinterpreting them . 
One-Eye 's handicap in no way impairs his marvelous hindsight . 
Lightning from a clear sky smote the Necropolitan Hill . 
One bolt struck the bronze plaque sealing the tomb of the forvalaka , obliterating half the spell of confinement . 
It rained stones . 
Statues bled . 
Priests at several temples reported sacrificial victims without hearts or livers . 
One victim escaped after its bowels were opened and was not recaptured . 
At the Fork Barracks , where the Urban Cohorts were billeted , the image of Teux turned completely around . 
For nine evenings running , ten black vultures circled the Bastion . 
Then one evicted , the eagle which lived atop the Paper Tower . 
Astrologers refused readings , fearing for their lives . 
A mad soothsayer wandered the streets proclaiming the imminent end of the world . 
At the Bastion , the eagle not only ; departed , the ivy on the outer ramparts withered and gave way to a creeper which appeared black in all but the most intense sunlight . 
But that happens every year . 
Fools can make an omen of anything in retrospect . 
We should have been better prepared . 
We did have four modestly accomplished wizards to stand sentinel against predatory tomorrows-though never by any means as sophisticated as divining through sheeps ' entrails . 
Still , the best augurs are those who divine from the portents of the past . 
They compile phenomenal records . 
Beryl totters perpetually , ready to stumble over a precipice into chaos . 
The Queen of the Jewel Cities was old and decadent and mad , filled with the stench of degeneracy and moral dryrot . 
Only a fool would be surprised by anything found creeping its night streets . 
I had every shutter thrown wide , praying for a breath off the harbor , rotting fish and all . 
There was n't enough breeze to stir a cobweb . 
I mopped my face and grimaced at my first patient . 
`` Crabs again , Curly ? '' 
He grinned feebly . 
His face was pale . 
`` It 's my stomach , Croaker , '' His pate looks like a polished ostrich egg . 
Thus the name . 
I checked the watch schedule and duty roster . 
Nothing there he would want to avoid . 
`` It 's bad , Croaker . 
Really . '' 
`` Uhm . '' 
I assumed my professional demeanor , sure what it was . 
His skin was clammy , despite the heat . 
`` Eaten outside the commissary lately , Curly ? '' 
A fly landed on his head , strutted like a conqueror . 
He did n't notice . 
`` Yeah . 
Three , four times . '' 
`` Uhm . '' 
I mixed a nasty , milky concoction . 
`` Drink this . 
All of it . '' 
His whole face puckered at the first taste . 
`` Look , Croaker , I. ... '' The smell of the stuff revolted me . 
`` Drink , friend . 
Two men died before I came up with that . 
Then Pokey took it and lived . '' 
Word was out about that . 
He drank . 
`` You mean it 's poison ? 
The damned Blues slipped me something ? '' 
`` Take it easy . 
You 'll be okay . 
Yeah . 
It looks that way . '' 
I 'd had to open up Walleye and Wild Bruce to learn the truth . 
It was a subtle poison . 
`` Get over there on the cot where the breeze will hit you-if the son of a bitch ever comes up . 
And lie still . 
Let the stuff work . '' 
I settled him down , `` Tell me what you ate outside . '' 
I collected a pen and a chart tacked onto a board . 
I had done the same with Pokey , and with Wild Bruce before he died , and had had Walleye 's platoon sergeant backtrack his movements . 
I was sure the poison had come from one of several nearby dives frequented by the Bastion garrison . 
Curly produced one across-the-board match . 
`` Bingo ! 
We 've got the bastards now . '' 
`` Who ? '' 
He was ready to go settle up himself . 
`` You rest . 
I 'll see the Captain . '' 
I patted his shoulder , checked the next room . 
Curly was it for morning sick call . 
I took the long route , along Trejan 's Wall , which overlooks Beryl 's harbor . 
Halfway oven I paused , stared north , past the mole and lighthouse and Fortress Island , at the Sea of Torments . 
Particolored sails speckled the dingy grey-brown water as coastal dhows scooted out along the spiderweb of routes linking the Jewel Cities . 
The upper air was still and heavy and hazy . 
The horizon could not be discerned . 
But down on the water the air was in motion . 
There was always a breeze out around the Island , though it avoided the shore as if fearing leprosy . 
Closer at hand , the wheeling gulls were as surly and lackadaisical as the day promised to make most men . 
Another summer in service to the Syndic of Beryl , sweating and grimy , thanklessly shielding him from political rivals and his undisciplined native troops . 
Another summer busting our butts for Curly 's reward . 
The pay was good , but not in coin of the soul . 
Our forebrethren would be embarrassed to see us so diminished . 
Beryl is misery curdled , but also ancient and intriguing . 
Its history is a bottomless well filled with murky water . 
I amuse myself plumbing its shadowy depths , trying to isolate fact from fiction , legend , and myth . 
No easy task , for the city 's earlier historians wrote with an eye to pleasing the powers of their day . 
The most interesting period , for me , is the ancient kingdom , which is the least satisfactorily chronicled . 
It was then , in the reign of Niam , that the forvalaka came , were overcome after a decade of terror , and were confined in their dark tomb atop the Necropolitan Hill . 
Echoes of that terror persist in folklore and matronly admonitions to unruly children . 
No one recalls what the forvalaka were , now . 
I resumed walking , despairing of beating the heat . 
The sentries , in their shaded kiosks , wore towels draped around their necks . 
A breeze startled me . 
I faced the harbor . 
A ship was founding the Island , a great lumbering beast that dwarfed the dhows and feluccas . 
A silver skull bulged in the center of its full-bellied black sail . 
That skull 's red eyes glowed . 
Fires flickered behind its broken teeth . 
A glittering silver band encircled the skull . 
`` What the hell is that ? '' 
a sentry asked . 
`` I do n't know , Whitey . '' 
The ship 's size impressed me more than did its flashy sail . 
The four minor wizards we had with the Company could match that showmanship . 
But I 'd never seen a galley sporting five banks of oars . 
I recalled my mission . 
I knocked on the Captain 's door . 
He did not respond . 
I invited myself inside , found him snoring in his big wooden chair . 
`` Yo ! '' 
I hollered . 
`` Fire ! 
Riots in the Groan ! 
Dancing at the Gate of Dawn ! '' 
Dancing was an old time general who nearly destroyed Beryl . 
People still shudder at his name . 
The Captain was cool . 
He did n't crack an eyelid or smile . 
`` You 're presumptuous , Croaker , When are you going to learn to go through channels ? '' 
Channels meant bug the Lieutenant first . 
Do n't interrupt his nap unless the Blues were storming the Bastion . 
I explained about Curly and my chart . 
He swung his feet off the desk . 
`` Sounds like work for Mercy . '' 
His voice had a hard edge . 
The Black Company does not suffer malicious attacks upon its men . 
Mercy was our nastiest platoon leader . 
He thought a dozen men would suffice , but lei Silent and me lag along . 
I could patch the wounded . 
Silent would be useful if the Blues played rough . 
Silent held us up half a day while he made a quick trip to the woods , `` What the hell you up to ? '' 
I asked when he got back , lugging a ratty-looking sack . 
He just grinned . 
Silent he is and silent he stays . 
The place was called Mole Tavern . 
It was a comfortable hangout . 
I had passed many an evening there . 
Mercy assigned three men to the back door , and a pair each to the two windows . 
He sent another two to the roof . 
Every building in Beryl has a roof hatch . 
People sleep up top during the summer . 
He led the rest of us through the Mole 's front door . 
Mercy was a smallish , cocky fellow , fond of the dramatic gesture . 
His entry should have been preceded by fanfares . 
The crowd froze , stared at our shields and bared blades , at snatches of grim faces barely visible through gaps in our face guards . 
`` Verus ! '' 
Mercy shouted . 
`` Get your butt out here ! '' 
The grandfather of the managing family appeared . 
He sidled toward us like a mutt expecting a kick . 
The customers began buzzing . 
`` Silence ! '' 
Mercy thundered . 
He could get a big roar out of his small body . 
`` How may we help you , honored sirs ? '' 
the old man asked . 
`` You can get your sons and grandsons out here , Blue . '' 
Chairs squeaked . 
A soldier slammed his blade into a tabletop . 
`` Sit still , '' Mercy said . 
`` You 're just having lunch , fine . 
You 'll be loose in an hour . '' 
The old man began shaking . 
`` I do n't understand , sir . 
What have we done ? '' 
Mercy grinned evilly . 
`` He plays the innocent well . 
It 's murder , Verus . 
Two charges of murder by poisoning . 
Two of attempted murder by poisoning . 
The magistrates decreed the punishment of slaves . '' 
He was having fun . 
Mercy was n't one of my favorite people . 
He never slopped being the boy who pulled wings off flies . 
The punishment of slaves meant being left up for scavenger birds after public crucifixion . 
In Beryl only criminals are buried uncremated , or not buried al all . 
An uproar rose in the kitchen . 
Somebody was trying to get out the back door . 
Our men were objecting . 
The public room exploded . 
A wave of dagger-brandishing humanity hit us . 
They forced us back to the door . 
Those who were not guilty obviously feared they would be condemned with those who were . 
Beryl 's justice is fast , crude , and harsh , and seldom gives a defendant opportunity to clear himself . 
A dagger slipped past a shield . 
One of our men went down , I am not much as a fighter , but I stepped into his place . 
Mercy said something snide that I did not catch . 
`` That 's your chance at heaven wasted , '' I countered . 
`` You 're out of the Annals forever . '' 
`` Crap . 
You do n't leave out anything . '' 
A dozen citizens went down . 
Blood pooled in low places on the floor . 
Spectators gathered outside . 
Soon some adventurer would hit us from behind . 
A dagger nicked Mercy . 
He lost patience . 
`` Silent ! '' 
Silent was on the job already , but he was Silent . 
That meant no sound , and very little flash or fury . 
Mole patrons began slapping their faces and pawing the air , forsaking us . 
They hopped and danced , grabbed their backs and behinds , squealed and howled piteously . 
Several collapsed . 
`` What the hell did you do ? '' 
I asked . 
Silent grinned , exposing sharp teeth . 
He passed a dusky paw across my eyes . 
I saw the . 
Mole tram a slightly altered perspective . 
The bag he had lugged in from out of town proved to be one of those hornets ' nests you can , if you 're unlucky , run into in the woods south of Beryl . 
Its tenants were the bumblebee-looking monsters peasants call bald-faced hornets . 
They have a foul temper unrivalled anywhere in Nature . 
They cowed the Mole crowd fast , without bothering our lads . 
`` Fine work , Silent , '' Mercy said , after having vented his fury on several hapless patrons . 
He herded the survivors into the street . 
I examined our injured brother while the unharmed soldier finished the wounded . 
Saving the Syndic the cost of a trial and a hangman , Mercy called that . 
Silent looked on , still grinning . 
He 's not nice either , though he seldom participates directly . 
We took more prisoners than expected . 
`` Was a bunch of them . '' 
Mercy 's eyes twinkled . 
`` Thanks , Silent . '' 
The line stretched a block . 
Fate is a fickle bitch . 
She 'd led us to Mole Tavern at a critical moment . 
Poking around , our witch man had unearthed a prize , a crowd concealed in a hideout beneath the wine cellar . 
Among them were some of the best known Blues . 
Mercy chattered , wondering aloud how large a reward our informant deserved . 
No such informant existed . 
The yammer was meant to save our tame wizards from becoming prime targets . 
Our enemies would scurry around looking for phantom spies . 
`` Move them out , '' Mercy ordered . 
Still grinning , he eyed the sullen crowd . 
`` Think they 'll try something ? '' 
They did not . 
His supreme confidence cowed anyone who had ideas . 
We wound through mazelike streets half as old as the world , our prisoners shuffling listlessly . 
I gawked . 
My comrades are indifferent to the past , but I can not help being awed-and occasionally intimidated-by how time-deep Beryl 's history runs . 
Mercy called an unexpected halt . 
We had come to the Avenue of the Syndics ' , which winds from the Customs House uptown to the Bastion 's main gate . 
There was a procession on the Avenue . 
Though we reached the intersection first , Mercy yielded the right-of-way . 
The procession consisted of a hundred armed men . 
They looked tougher than anyone in Beryl but us . 
At their head rode a dark figure on the biggest black stallion I 've ever seen . 
The rider was small , effeminately slim , and clad in worn black leather . 
He wore a black morion which concealed his head entirely . 
Black gloves concealed his hands . 
He seemed to be unarmed . 
`` Damn me , '' Mercy whispered . 
I was disturbed . 
That rider chilled me . 
Something primitive deep inside me wanted to run . 
But curiosity plagued me more . 
Who was he ? 
Had he come off that strange ship in the harbor ? 
Why was he here ? 
The eyeless gaze of the rider swept across us indifferently , as though passing over a flock of sheep . 
Then it jerked back , fixing on Silent . 
Silent met stare for stare , and showed no fear . 
And still he seemed somehow diminished . 
The column passed on , hardened , disciplined . 
Shaken , Mercy got our mob moving again . 
We entered the Bastion only yards behind the strangers . 
We had arrested most of the more conservative Blue leadership . 
When word of the raid spread , the volatile types decided to flex their muscles . 
They sparked something monstrous . 
The perpetually abrasive weather does things to men 's reason . 
The Beryl mob is savage . 
Riots occur almost without provocation . 
When things go bad the dead number in the thousands . 
This was one of the worst times . 
The army is half the problem . 
A parade of weak , short-term Syndics let discipline lapse - . 
The troops are beyond control now . 
Generally , though , they will act against rioters . 
They see riot suppression as license to loot . 
The worst happened . 
Several cohorts from the Fork Barracks demanded a special donative before they would respond to a directive to restore order . 
The Syndic refused to pay . 
The cohorts mutinied . 
Mercy 's platoon hastily established a strongpoint near the Rubbish Gate and held off all three cohorts . 
Most of our men were killed , but none ran . 
Mercy himself lost an eye , a finger , was wounded in shoulder and hip , and had more than a hundred holes in his shield when help arrived . 
He came to me more dead than alive . 
In the end , the mutineers scattered rather than face the rest of the Black Company . 
The riots were the worst in memory . 
We lost almost a hundred brethren trying to suppress them . 
We could ill afford the loss of one . 
In the Groan the streets were carpet led with corpses . 
The rats grew fat . 
Clouds of vultures and ravens migrated from the countryside . 
The Captain ordered the Company into the Bastion . 
`` Let it run its course , '' he said . 
