The desert was the apotheosis of all deserts , huge , standing to the sky for what might have been parsecs in all directions . 
White ; blinding ; waterless ; without feature save for the faint , cloudy haze of the mountains which sketched themselves on the horizon and the devil-grass which brought sweet dreams , nightmares , death . 
An occasional tombstone sign pointed the way , for once the drifted track that cut its way through the thick crust of alkali had been a highway and coaches had followed it . 
The world had moved on since then . 
The world had emptied . 
The gunslinger walked stolidly , not hurrying , not loafing . 
A hide waterbag was slung around his middle like a bloated sausage . 
It was almost full . 
He had progressed through the khef over many years , and had reached the fifth level . 
At the seventh or eighth , he would not have been thirsty ; he could have watched own body dehydrate with clinical , detached attention , watering its crevices and dark inner hollows only when his logic told him it must be done . 
He was not seventh or eighth . 
He was fifth . 
So he was thirsty , although he had no particular urge to drink . 
In a vague way , all this pleased him . 
It was romantic . 
Below the waterbag were his guns , finely weighted to his hand . 
The two belts crisscrossed above his crotch . 
The holsters were oiled too deeply for even this Philistine sun to crack . 
The stocks of the guns were sandalwood , yellow and finely grained . 
The holsters were tied down with rawhide cord , and they swung heavily against his hips . 
The brass casings of the cartridges looped into the gun belts twinkled and flashed and heliographed in the sun . 
The leather made subtle creaking noises . 
The guns themselves made no noise . 
They had spilled blood . 
There was no need to make noise in the sterility of the desert His clothes were the no-color of rain or dust . 
His shirt was open at the throat , with a rawhide thong dangling loosely in hand-punched eyelets . 
His pants were seam-stretched dungarees . 
He breasted a gently rising dune -LRB- although there was no sand here ; the desert was hardpan , and even the harsh winds that blew when dark came raised only an aggravating harsh dust like scouring powder -RRB- and saw the kicked remains of a tiny campfire on the lee side , the side which the sun would quit earliest . 
Small signs like this , once more affirming the man in black 's essential humanity , never failed to please him . 
His lips stretched in the pitted , flaked remains of his face . 
He squatted . 
He had burned the devil-grass , of course . 
It was the only thing out here that would burn . 
It burned with a greasy , flat light , and it burned slow . 
Border dwellers had told him that devils lived even in the flames . 
They burned it but would not look into the light . 
They said the devils hypnotized , beckoned , would eventually draw the one who looked into the fires . 
And the next man foolish enough to look into the fire might see you . 
The burned grass was crisscrossed in the now-familiar ideographic pattern , and crumbled to gray senselessness before the gunslinger 's prodding hand . 
There was nothing in the remains but a charred scrap of bacon , which he ate thoughtfully . 
It had always been this way . 
The gunslinger had followed the man in black across the desert for two months now , across the endless , screamingly monotonous purgatorial wastes , and had yet to find spoor other than the hygienic sterile ideographs of the man in black 's campfires . 
He had not found a can , a bottle , or a waterbag -LRB- the gunslinger had left four of those behind , like dead snake-skins -RRB- . 
-- Perhaps the campfires are a message , spelled out letter by letter . 
Take a powder . 
Or , the end draweth nigh . 
Or maybe even , Eat at Joe 's . 
It did n't matter . 
He had no understanding of the ideograms , if they were ideograms . 
And the remains were as cold as all the others . 
He knew he was closer , but did not know how he knew . 
That did n't matter either . 
He stood up , brushing his hands . 
No other trace ; the wind , razor-sharp , had of course filed away even what scant tracks the hardpan held . 
He had never even been able to find his quarry 's droppings . 
Nothing . 
Only these cold campfires along the ancient highway and the relentless range-finder in his own head . 
He sat down and allowed himself a short pull from the waterbag . 
He scanned the desert , looked up at the sun , which was now sliding down the far quadrant of the sky . 
He got up , removed his gloves from his belt , and began to pull devil-grass for his own fire , which he laid over the ashes the man in black had left . 
He found the irony , like the romance of his thirst , bitterly appealing . 
He did not use the flint and steel until the remains of the day were only the fugitive heat in the ground beneath him and a sardonic orange line on the monochrome western horizon . 
He watched the south patiently , toward the mountains , not hoping or expecting to see the thin straight line of smoke from a new campfire , but merely watching because that was a part of it . 
There was nothing . 
He was close , but only relatively so . 
Not close enough to see smoke at dusk . 
He struck his spark to the dry , shredded grass and lay down upwind , letting the dreamsmoke blow out toward the waste . 
The wind , except for occasional gyrating dust devils , was constant . 
Above , the stars were unwinking , also constant . 
Suns and worlds by the million . 
Dizzying constellations , cold fire in every primary hue . 
As he watched , the sky washed from violet to ebony . 
A meteor etched a brief , spectacular arc and winked out . 
The fire threw strange shadows as the devil-grass burned its slow way down into new patterns -- not ideograms but a straightforward crisscross vaguely frightening in its own no-nonsense surety . 
He had laid his fuel in a pattern that was not artful but only workable . 
It spoke of blacks and whites . 
It spoke of a man who might straighten bad pictures in strange hotel rooms . 
The fire burned its steady , slow flame , and phantoms danced in its incandescent core . 
The gunslinger did not see . 
He slept . 
The two patterns , art and craft , were welded together . 
The wind moaned . 
Every now and then a perverse downdraft would make the smoke whirl and eddy toward him , and sporadic whiffs of the smoke touched him . 
They built dreams in the same way that a small irritant may build a pearl . 
II He had come down off the last of the foothills leading the donkey , whose eyes were already dead and bulging with the heat . 
He had passed the last town three weeks before , and since then there had only been the deserted coach track and an occasional huddle of border dwellers ' sod dwellings . 
The huddles had degenerated into single dwellings , most inhabited by lepers or madmen . 
He found the madmen better company . 
One had given him a stainless steel Silva compass and bade him give it to Jesus . 
The gunslinger took it gravely . 
If he saw Him , he would turn over the compass . 
He did not expect to . 
Five days had passed since the last hut , and he had begun to suspect there would be no more when he topped the last eroded hill and saw the familiar low-backed sod roof . 
The dweller , a surprisingly young man with a wild shock of strawberry hair that reached almost to his waist , was weeding a scrawny stand of corn with zealous abandon . 
The mule let out a wheezing grunt and the dweller looked up , glaring blue eyes coming target-center on the gunslinger in a moment He raised both hands in curt salute and then bent to the corn again , humping up the row next to his hut with back bent , tossing devil-grass and an occasional stunted corn plant over his shoulder . 
His hair flopped and flew in the wind that now came directly from the desert , with nothing to break it . 
The gunslinger came down the hill slowly , leading the donkey on which his waterskins sloshed . 
He paused by the edge of the lifeless-looking cornpatch , drew a drink from one of his skins to start the saliva , and spatinto the arid soil . 
`` Life for your crop . '' 
`` Life for your own , '' the dweller answered and stood up . 
His back popped audibly . 
He surveyed the gunslinger without fear . 
The little of his face visible between beard and hair seemed unmarked by the rot , and his eyes , while a bit wild , seemed sane . 
`` I do n't have anything but corn and beans , '' he said . 
`` Corn 's free , but you 'll have to kick something in for the beans . 
A man brings them out once in a while . 
He do n't stay long . '' 
The dweller laughed shortly . 
`` Afraid of spirits . '' 
`` I expect he thinks you 're one . '' 
`` I expect he does . '' 
They looked at each other in silence for a moment . 
The dweller put out his hand . 
`` Brown is my name . '' 
The gunslinger shook his hand . 
As he did so , a scrawny raven croaked from the low peak of the sod roof . 
The dweller gestured at it briefly : `` That 's Zoltan . '' 
At the sound of its name the raven croaked again and flew across to Brown . 
It landed on the dweller 's head and roosted , talons firmly twined in the wild thatch of hair . 
`` Screw you , '' Zoltan croaked brightly . 
`` Screw you and the horse you rode in on . '' 
The gunslinger nodded amiably . 
`` Beans , beans , the musical fruit , '' the raven recited , inspired . 
`` The more you eat , the more you toot '' `` You teach him that ? '' 
`` That 's all he wants to learn , I guess , '' Brown said . 
`` Tried to teach him The Lord 's Prayer once . '' 
His eyes traveled out beyond the hut for a moment , toward the gritty , featureless hardpan . 
`` Guess this ai n't Lord 's Prayer country . 
You 're a gunslinger . 
That right ? '' 
`` Yes . '' 
He hunkered down and brought out his makings . 
Zoltan launched himself from Brown 's head and landed , flittering , on the gunslinger 's shoulder . 
`` After the other one , I guess . '' 
`` Yes . '' 
The inevitable question formed in his mouth : `` How long since he passed by ? '' 
Brown shrugged . 
`` I do n't know . 
Time 's funny out here . 
More than two weeks . 
Less than two months . 
The bean man 's been twice since he passed . 
I 'd guess six weeks . 
That 's probably wrong . '' 
`` The more you eat , the more you toot , '' Zoltan said . 
`` Did he stop off ? '' 
the gunslinger asked . 
Brown nodded . 
`` He stayed supper , same as you will , I guess . 
We passed the time . '' 
The gunslinger stood up and the bird flew back to the roof , squawking . 
He felt an odd , trembling eagerness . 
`` What did he talk about ? '' 
Brown cocked an eyebrow at him . 
`` Not much . 
Did it ever rain and when did I come here and had I buried my wife . 
I did most of the talking , which ai n't usual . '' 
He paused . 
and the only sound was the stark wind . 
`` He 's a sorcerer , ai n't he ? '' 
`` Yes . '' 
Brown nodded slowly . 
`` I knew . 
Are you ? '' 
`` I 'm just a man . '' 
`` You 'll never catch him . '' 
`` I 'll catch him . '' 
They looked at each other , a sudden depth of feeling between them , the dweller upon his dust-puff-dry ground , the gunslinger on the hardpan that shelved down to the desert . 
He reached for his flint . 
`` Here . '' 
Brown produced a sulfur-headed match and struck it with a grimed nail . 
The gunslinger pushed the tip of his smoke into the flame and drew . 
`` Thanks . '' 
`` You 'll want to fill your skins , '' the dweller said , turning away . 
`` Spring 's under the eaves in back . 
I 'll start dinner . '' 
The gunslinger stepped gingerly over the rows of corn and went around back . 
The spring was at the bottom of a hand-dug well , lined with stones to keep the powdery earth from caving . 
As he descended the rickety ladder , the gunslinger reflected that the stones must represent two years ' work easily -- hauling , dragging , laying . 
The water was clear but slow-moving , and filling the skins was a long chore . 
While he was topping the second , Zoltan perched on the lip of the well . 
`` Screw you and the horse you rode in on , '' he advised . 
He looked up , startled . 
The shaft was about fifteen feet deep : easy enough for Brown to drop a rock on him , break his head , and steal everything on him . 
A crazy or a rotter would n't do it ; Brown was neither . 
Yet he liked Brown , and so he pushed the thought out of his mind and got the rest of his water . 
What came , came . 
When he came through the hut 's door and walked down the steps -LRB- the hovel proper was set below ground level , designed to catch and hold the coolness of the nights -RRB- , Brown was poking ears of corn into the embers of a tiny fire with a hardwood spatula . 
Two ragged plates had been set at opposite ends of a dun blanket . 
Water for the beans was just beginning to bubble in a pot hung over the fire . 
`` I 'll pay for the water , too . '' 
Brown did not look up . 
`` The water 's a gift from God . 
Pappa Doc brings the beans . '' 
The gunslinger grunted a laugh and sat down with his back against one rude wall , folded his arms and closed his eyes . 
After a little , the smell of roasting corn came to his nose . 
There was a pebbly rattle as Brown dumped a paper of dry beans into the pot An occasional tak-tak-tak as Zoltan walked restlessly on the roof . 
He was tired ; he had been going sixteen and sometimes eighteen hours a day between here and the horror that had occurred in Tull , the last village . 
And he had been afoot for the last twelve days ; the mule was at the end of its endurance . 
Tak-tak-tak . 
Two weeks , Brown had said , or as much as six . 
Did n't matter . 
There had been calendars in Tull , and they had remembered the man in black because of the old man he had healed on his way through . 
Just an old man dying with the weed . 
An old man of thirty-five . 
And if Brown was right , the man in black had lost ground since then . 
But the desert was next . 
And the desert would be hell . 
Tak-tak-tak . 
-- Lend me your wings , bird . 
I 'll spread them and fly on the thermals . 
He slept III Brown woke him up five hours later . 
It was dark . 
The only light was the dull cherry glare of the banked embers . 
`` Your mule has passed on , '' Brown said . 
`` Dinner 's ready . '' 
`` How ? '' 
Brown shrugged . 
`` Roasted and boiled , how else ? 
You picky ? '' 
`` No , the mule . '' 
`` It just laid over , that 's all . 
It looked like an old mule . '' 
And with a touch of apology : `` Zoltan et the eyes . '' 
`` Oh . '' 
He might have expected it `` All right '' Brown surprised him again when they sat down to the blanket that served as a table by asking a brief blessing : Rain , health , expansion to the spirit `` Do you believe in an afterlife ? '' 
The gunslinger asked him as Brown dropped three ears of hot corn onto his plate . 
Brown nodded . 
`` I think this is it . '' 
