King Henry VI , Part III Chapter One The Don Salvara Game 1 LOCKE LAMORA 'S RULE of thumb was this : a good confidence game took three months to plan , three weeks to rehearse , and three seconds to win or lose the victim 's trust forever . 
This time around , he planned to spend those three seconds getting strangled . 
Locke was on his knees , and Calo , standing behind him , had a hemp rope coiled three times around his neck . 
The rough stuff looked impressive , and it would leave Locke 's throat a very credible shade of red . 
No genuine Camorri assassin old enough to waddle in a straight line would garrote with anything but silk or wire , of course -LRB- the better to crease the victim 's windpipe -RRB- . 
Yet if Don Lorenzo Salvara could tell a fake strangling from the real thing in the blink of an eye at thirty paces , they 'd badly misjudged the man they planned to rob and the whole game would be shot anyway . 
`` Can you see him yet ? 
Or Bug 's signal ? '' 
Locke hissed his question as lightly as he could , then made a few impressive gurgling sounds . 
`` No signal . 
No Don Salvara . 
Can you breathe ? '' 
`` Fine , just fine , '' Locke whispered , `` but shake me some more . 
That 's the convincer . '' 
They were in the dead-end alley beside the old Temple of Fortunate Waters ; the temple 's prayer waterfalls could be heard gushing somewhere behind the high plaster wall . 
Locke clutched once again at the harmless coils of rope circling his neck and spared a glance for the horse staring at him from just a few paces away , laden down with a rich-looking cargo of merchant 's packs . 
The poor dumb animal was Gentled ; there was neither curiosity nor fear behind the milk-white shells of its unblinking eyes . 
It would n't have cared even had the strangling been real . 
Precious seconds passed ; the sun was high and bright in a sky scalded free of clouds , and the grime of the alley clung like wet cement to the legs of Locke 's breeches . 
Nearby , Jean Tannen lay in the same moist muck while Galdo pretended -LRB- mostly -RRB- to kick his ribs in . 
He 'd been merrily kicking away for at least a minute , just as long as his twin brother had supposedly been strangling Locke . 
Don Salvara was supposed to pass the mouth of the alley at any second and , ideally , rush in to rescue Locke and Jean from their `` assailants . '' 
At this rate , he would end up rescuing them from boredom . 
`` Gods , '' Calo whispered , bending his mouth to Locke 's ear as though he might be hissing some demand , `` where the hell is that damn Salvara ? 
And where 's Bug ? 
We ca n't keep this shit up all day ; other people do walk by the mouth of this damned alley ! '' 
`` Keep strangling me , '' Locke whispered . 
`` Just think of twenty thousand full crowns and keep strangling me . 
I can choke all day if I have to . '' 
2 EVERYTHING HAD gone beautifully that morning in the run-up to the game itself , even allowing for the natural prickliness of a young thief finally allowed a part in his first big score . 
`` Of course I know where I 'm supposed to be when the action starts , '' Bug whined . 
`` I 've spent more time perched up on that temple roof than I did in my mother 's gods-damned womb ! '' 
Jean Tannen let his right hand trail in the warm water of the canal while he took another bite of the sour marsh apple held in his left . 
The forward gunwale of the flat-bottomed barge was a choice spot for relaxation in the watered-wine light of early morning , allowing all sixteen stone of Jean 's frame to sprawl comfortably -- keg belly , heavy arms , bandy legs , and all . 
The only other person -LRB- and the one doing all of the work -RRB- in the empty barge was Bug : a lanky , mop-headed twelve-year-old braced against the steering pole at the stern . 
`` Your mother was in an understandable hurry to get rid of you , Bug . '' 
Jean 's voice was soft and even and wildly incongruous . 
He spoke like a teacher of music or a copier of scrolls . 
`` We 're not . 
So indulge me once more with proof of your penetrating comprehension of our game . '' 
`` Dammit , '' Bug replied , giving the barge another push against the gentle current of the seaward-flowing canal . 
`` You and Locke and Calo and Galdo are down in the alley between Fortunate Waters and the gardens for the Temple of Nara , right ? 
I 'm up on the roof of the temple across the way . '' 
`` Go on , '' Jean said around a mouthful of marsh apple . 
`` Where 's Don Salvara ? '' 
Other barges , heavily laden with everything from ale casks to bleating cows , were slipping past the two of them on the clay-colored water of the canal . 
Bug was poling them north along Camorr 's main commercial waterway , the Via Camorrazza , toward the Shifting Market , and the city was lurching into life around them . 
The leaning gray tenements of water-slick stone were spitting their inhabitants out into the sunlight and the rising summer warmth . 
The month was Parthis , meaning that the night-sweat of condensation already boiling off the buildings as a soupy mist would be greatly missed by the cloudless white heat of early afternoon . 
`` He 's coming out of the Temple of Fortunate Waters , like he does every Penance Day right around noon . 
He 's got two horses and one man with him , if we 're lucky . '' 
`` A curious ritual , '' Jean said . 
`` Why would he do a thing like that ? '' 
`` Deathbed promise to his mother . '' 
Bug drove his pole down into the canal , struggled against it for a moment , and managed to shove them along once more . 
`` She kept the Vadran religion after she married the old Don Salvara . 
So he leaves an offering at the Vadran temple once a week and gets home as fast as he can so nobody pays too much attention to him . 
Dammit , Jean , I already know this shit . 
Why would I be here if you did n't trust me ? 
And why am I the one who gets to push this stupid barge all the way to the market ? '' 
`` Oh , you can stop poling the barge any time you can beat me hand to hand three falls out of five . '' 
Jean grinned , showing two rows of crooked brawler 's teeth in a face that looked as though someone had set it on an anvil and tried to pound it into a more pleasing shape . 
`` Besides , you 're an apprentice in a proud trade , learning under the finest and most demanding masters it has to offer . 
Getting all the shit-work is excellent for your moral education . '' 
`` You have n't given me any bloody moral education . '' 
`` Yes . 
Well , that 's probably because Locke and I have been dodging our own for most of our lives now . 
As for why we 're going over the plan again , let me remind you that one good screwup will make the fate of those poor bastards look sunny in comparison to what we 'll get . '' 
Jean pointed at one of the city 's slop wagons , halted on a canal-side boulevard to receive a long dark stream of night soil from the upper window of a public alehouse . 
These wagons were crewed by petty criminals whose offenses were too meager to justify continual incarceration in the Palace of Patience . 
Shackled to their wagons and huddled in the alleged protection of long leather ponchos , they were let out each morning to enjoy what sun they could when they were n't cursing the dubious accuracy with which several thousand Camorri emptied their chamber pots . 
`` I wo n't screw it up , Jean . '' 
Bug shook his thoughts like an empty coin purse , searching desperately for something to say that would make him sound as calm and assured as he imagined Jean and all the older Gentlemen Bastards always were -- but the mouth of most twelve-year-olds far outpaces the mind . 
`` I just wo n't , I bloody wo n't , I promise . '' 
`` Good lad , '' Jean said . 
`` Glad to hear it . 
But just what is it that you wo n't screw up ? '' 
Bug sighed . 
`` I make the signal when Salvara 's on his way out of the Temple of Fortunate Waters . 
I keep an eye out for anyone else trying to walk past the alley , especially the city watch . 
If anybody tries it , I jump down from the temple roof with a longsword and cut their bloody heads off where they stand . '' 
`` You what ? '' 
`` I said I distract them any way I can . 
You going deaf , Jean ? '' 
A line of tall countinghouses slid past on their left , each displaying lacquered woodwork , silk awnings , marble facades , and other ostentatious touches along the waterfront . 
There were deep roots of money and power sunk into that row of three - and four-story buildings . 
Coin-Kisser 's Row was the oldest and goldest financial district on the continent . 
The place was as steeped in influence and elaborate rituals as the glass heights of the Five Towers , in which the duke and the Grand Families sequestered themselves from the city they ruled . 
`` Move us up against the bank just under the bridges , Bug . '' 
Jean gestured vaguely with his apple . 
`` His Nibs will be waiting to come aboard . '' 
Two Elderglass arches bridged the Via Camorrazza right in the middle of Coin-Kisser 's Row -- a high and narrow catbridge for foot traffic and a lower , wider one for wagons . 
The seamless brilliance of the alien glass looked like nothing so much as liquid diamond , gently arched by giant hands and left to harden over the canal . 
On the right bank was the Fauria , a crowded island of multitiered stone apartments and rooftop gardens . 
Wooden wheels churned white against the stone embankment , drawing canal water up into a network of troughs and viaducts that crisscrossed over the Fauria 's streets at every level . 
Bug slid the barge over to a rickety quay just beneath the catbridge ; from the faint and slender shadow of this arch a man jumped down to the quay , dressed -LRB- as Bug and Jean were -RRB- in oil-stained leather breeches and a rough cotton shirt . 
His next nonchalant leap took him into the barge , which barely rocked at his arrival . 
`` Salutations to you , Master Jean Tannen , and profuse congratulations on the fortuitous timing of your arrival ! '' 
said the newcomer . 
`` Ah , well , felicitations to you in respect of the superlative grace of your entry into our very humble boat , Master Lamora . '' 
Jean punctuated this statement by popping the remains of his apple into his mouth , stem and all , and producing a wet crunching noise . 
`` Creeping shits , man . '' 
Locke Lamora stuck out his tongue . 
`` Must you do that ? 
You know the black alchemists make fish poison from the seeds of those damn things . '' 
`` Lucky me , '' said Jean after swallowing the last bit of masticated pulp , `` not being a fish . '' 
Locke was a medium man in every respect -- medium height , medium build , medium-dark hair cropped short above a face that was neither handsome nor memorable . 
He looked like a proper Therin , though perhaps a bit less olive and ruddy than Jean or Bug ; in another light he might have passed for a very tan Vadran . 
His bright gray eyes alone had any sense of distinction ; he was a man the gods might have shaped deliberately to be overlooked . 
He settled down against the left-hand gunwale and crossed his legs . 
`` Hello to you as well , Bug ! 
I knew we could count on you to take pity on your elders and let them rest in the sun while you do the hard work with the pole . '' 
`` Jean 's a lazy old bastard is what it is , '' Bug said . 
`` And if I do n't pole the barge , he 'll knock my teeth out the back of my head . '' 
`` Jean is the gentlest soul in Camorr , and you wound him with your accusations , '' said Locke . 
`` Now he 'll be up all night crying . '' 
`` I would have been up all night anyway , '' Jean added , `` crying from the ache of rheumatism and lighting candles to ward off evil vapors . '' 
`` Which is not to say that our bones do n't creak by day , my cruel apprentice . '' 
Locke massaged his kneecaps . 
`` We 're at least twice your age -- which is prodigious for our profession . '' 
`` The Daughters of Aza Guilla have tried to perform a corpse-blessing on me six times this week , '' said Jean . 
`` You 're lucky Locke and I are still spry enough to take you with us when we run a game . '' 
To anyone beyond hearing range , Locke and Jean and Bug might have looked like the crew of a for-hire barge , slacking their way toward a cargo pickup at the junction of the Via Camorrazza and the Angevine River . 
As Bug poled them closer and closer to the Shifting Market , the water was getting thicker with such barges , and with sleek black cockleshell boats , and battered watercraft of every description , not all of them doing a good job of staying afloat or under control . 
`` Speaking of our game , '' said Locke , `` how is our eager young apprentice 's understanding of his place in the scheme of things ? '' 
`` I 've been reciting it to Jean all morning , '' said Bug . 
`` And the conclusion is ? '' 
`` I 've got it down cold ! '' 
Bug heaved at the pole with all of his strength , driving them between a pair of high-walled floating gardens with inches to spare on either side . 
The scents of jasmine and oranges drifted down over them as their barge slipped beneath the protruding branches of one of the gardens ; a wary attendant peeked over one garden-boat 's wall , staff in hand to fend them off if necessary . 
The big barges were probably hauling transplants to some noble 's orchard upriver . 
`` Down cold , and I wo n't screw it up . 
I promise ! 
I know my place , and I know the signals . 
I wo n't screw it up ! '' 
3 CALO WAS shaking Locke with real vigor , and Locke 's performance as his victim was a virtuoso one , but still the moments dragged by . 
They were all trapped in their pantomime like figures out of the richly inventive hells of Therin theology : a pair of thieves destined to spend all eternity stuck in an alley , mugging victims that never passed out or gave up their money . 
`` Are you as alarmed as I am ? '' 
Calo whispered . 
`` Just stay in character , '' Locke hissed . 
`` You can pray and strangle at the same time . '' 
There was a high-pitched scream from their right , echoing across the cobbles and walls of the Temple District . 
It was followed by shouts and the creaking tread of men in battle harness -- but these sounds moved away from the mouth of the alley , not toward it . 
`` That sounded like Bug , '' said Locke . 
`` I hope he 's just arranging a distraction , '' said Calo , his grip on the rope momentarily slackening . 
At that instant , a dark shape darted across the gap of sky between the alley 's high walls , its fluttering shadow briefly falling over them as it passed . 
`` Now what the hell was that , then ? '' 
Calo asked . 
Off to their right , someone screamed again . 
4 BUG HAD poled himself , Locke , and Jean from the Via Camorrazza into the Shifting Market right on schedule , just as the vast Elderglass wind chime atop Westwatch was unlashed to catch the breeze blowing in from the sea and ring out the eleventh hour of the morning . 
The Shifting Market was a lake of relatively placid water at the very heart of Camorr , perhaps half a mile in circumference , protected from the rushing flow of the Angevine and the surrounding canals by a series of stone breakwaters . 
The only real current in the market was human-made , as hundreds upon hundreds of floating merchants slowly and warily followed one another counterclockwise in their boats , jostling for prized positions against the flat-topped breakwaters , which were crowded with buyers and sightseers on foot . 
City watchmen in their mustard-yellow tabards commanded sleek black cutters -- each rowed by a dozen shackled prisoners from the Palace of Patience -- using long poles and harsh language to maintain several rough channels through the drifting chaos of the market . 
Through these channels passed the pleasure barges of the nobility , and heavily laden freight barges , and empty ones like that containing the three Gentlemen Bastards , who shopped with their eyes as they sliced through a sea of hope and avarice . 
In just a few lengths of Bug 's poling , they passed a family of trinket dealers in ill-kept brown cockleshells , a spice merchant with his wares on a triangular rack in the middle of an awkward circular raft of the sort called a vertola , and a Canal Tree bobbing and swaying on the leather-bladder pontoon raft that supported its roots . 
These roots trailed in the water , drinking up the piss and effluvia of the busy city ; the canopy of rustling emerald leaves cast thousands of punctuated shadows down on the Gentlemen Bastards as they passed , along with the perfume of citrus . 
The tree -LRB- an alchemical hybrid that grew both limes and lemons -RRB- was tended by a middle-aged woman and three small children , who scuttled around in the branches throwing down fruit in response to orders from passing boats . 
Above the watercraft of the Shifting Market rose a field of flags and pennants and billowing silk standards , all competing through gaudy colors and symbols to impress their messages on watchful buyers . 
There were flags adorned with the crude outlines of fish or fowl or both ; flags adorned with ale mugs and wine bottles and loaves of bread , boots and trousers and threaded tailors ' needles , fruits and kitchen instruments and carpenters ' tools and a hundred other goods and services . 
Here and there , small clusters of chicken-flagged boats or shoe-flagged rafts were locked in close combat , their owners loudly proclaiming the superiority of their respective goods or inferring the bastardy of one another 's children , while the watch-boats stood off at a mindful distance , in case anyone should sink or commence a boarding action . 
`` It 's a pain sometimes , this pretending to be poor . '' 
Locke gazed around in reverie , the sort Bug would have been indulging in if the boy had n't been concentrating on avoiding collision . 
A barge packed with dozens of yowling housecats in wooden slat cages cut their wake , flagged with a blue pennant on which an artfully rendered dead mouse bled rich scarlet threads through a gaping hole in its throat . 
`` There 's just something about this place . 
I could almost convince myself that I really did have a pressing need for a pound of fish , some bowstrings , old shoes , and a new shovel . '' 
`` Fortunately for our credibility , '' said Jean , `` we 're coming up on the next major landmark on our way to a fat pile of Don Salvara 's money . '' 
He pointed past the northeastern breakwater of the market , beyond which a row of prosperous-looking waterfront inns and taverns stood between the market and the Temple District . 
`` Right as always , Jean . 
Greed before imagination . 
Keep us on track . '' 
Locke added an enthusiastic but superfluous finger to the direction Jean was already pointing . 
`` Bug ! 
Get us out onto the river , then veer right . 
One of the twins is going to be waiting for us at the Tumblehome , third inn down on the south bank . '' 
Bug pushed them north , straining to reach the bottom of the market 's basin -- which was easily half again as deep as the surrounding canals -- with each thrust . 
They evaded overzealous purveyors of grapefruits and sausage rolls and alchemical light-sticks , and Locke and Jean amused themselves with a favorite game , trying to spot the little pickpockets among the crowds on the breakwaters . 
The inattention of Camorr 's busy thousands still managed to feed the doddering old Thiefmaker in his dank warren under Shades ' Hill , nearly twenty years since Locke or Jean had last set foot inside the place . 
Once they escaped from the market and onto the river itself , Bug and Jean wordlessly switched places . 
The fast waters of the Angevine would be better matched against Jean 's muscle , and Bug would need to rest his arms for his part in the game to come . 
As Bug collapsed in Jean 's former place at the bow , Locke produced a cinnamon-lemon apparently from thin air and tossed it to the boy . 
Bug ate it in six bites , dry skin and all , masticating the reddish yellow pulp as grotesquely as possible between his bright , crooked teeth . 
He grinned . 
`` They do n't make fish poison from those things , right ? '' 
`` No , '' Locke said . 
`` They only make fish poison from things that Jean eats . '' 
Jean harrumphed . 
`` A little fish poison puts hair on your chest . 
Excepting if you 're a fish . '' 
Jean kept them nearly against the southern bank of the Angevine , clear of the depths where the pole could n't reach . 
Shafts of hot , pearl-white light flashed down on them as Eldgerglass bridges passed directly between their barge and the still-rising sun . 
The river was two hundred yards wide , sweating its wetness up into the air along with the smell of fish and silt . 
To the north , rippling under the heat-haze , were the orderly slopes of the Alcegrante islands , home to the city 's greater commoners and minor nobles . 
It was a place of walled gardens , elaborate water sculptures , and white stone villas , well off-limits to anyone dressed as Locke and Jean and Bug were . 
With the sun approaching its zenith , the vast shadows of the Five Towers had withdrawn into the Upper City and were currently nothing more than a rosy stained-glass glow that spilled just over the northern edges of the Alcegrante . 
`` Gods , I love this place , '' Locke said , drumming his fingers against his thighs . 
`` Sometimes I think this whole city was put here simply because the gods must adore crime . 
Pickpockets rob the common folk , merchants rob anyone they can dupe , Capa Barsavi robs the robbers and the common folk , the lesser nobles rob nearly everyone , and Duke Nicovante occasionally runs off with his army and robs the shit out of Tal Verrar or Jerem , not to mention what he does to his own nobles and his common folk . '' 
`` So that makes us robbers of robbers , '' said Bug , `` who pretend to be robbers working for a robber of other robbers . '' 
`` Yes , we do sort of screw the pretty picture up , do n't we ? '' 
Locke thought for a few seconds , clicking his tongue against the insides of his cheeks . 
`` Think of what we do as , ah , a sort of secret tax on nobles with more money than prudence . 
Hey ! 
Here we are . '' 
Beneath the Tumblehome Inn was a wide and well-kept quay with half a dozen mooring posts , none of them currently occupied . 
The smooth gray embankment was about ten feet high here ; broad stone steps led up to street level , as did a cobbled ramp for cargo and horses . 
Calo Sanza was waiting for them at the edge of the quay , dressed only slightly better than his fellows , with a Gentled horse standing placidly behind him . 
Locke waved . 
`` What 's the news ? '' 
Locke cried . 
Jean 's poling was skilled and graceful ; the quay was twenty yards away , then ten , and then they were sliding up alongside it with a gentle scraping noise . 
`` Galdo got all the stuff packed into the room -- it 's the Bowsprit Suite on the first floor , '' Calo whispered in response , bending down to Locke and Bug as he picked up the barge 's mooring rope . 
Calo had dark liquor-colored skin and hair like an inky slice of night ; the tautness of the flesh around his dark eyes was broken only by a fine network of laugh-lines -LRB- though anyone who knew the Sanza twins would more readily describe them as smirk-lines -RRB- . 
An improbably sharp and hooked nose preceded his good looks like a dagger held at guard position . 
Once he had made the barge fast to a mooring post , Calo tossed to Locke a heavy iron key attached to a long tassel of braided red and black silk . 
At a quality rooming house like the Tumblehome , each private suite 's door was guarded by a clockwork lockbox -LRB- removable only by some cunning means known to the owners -RRB- that could be swapped out from a niche in the door . 
Each rented room received a random new box and its attendant key . 
With hundreds of such identical-looking boxes stored behind the polished counter in the reception hall , the inn could pretty much guarantee that copying keys for later break-ins was a practical waste of a thief 's time . 
This courtesy would also give Locke and Jean guaranteed privacy for the rapid transformation that was about to take place . 
`` Wonderful ! '' 
Locke leaped up onto the quay as spryly as he had entered the boat ; Jean passed the steering pole back to Bug , then made the barge shudder with his own leap . 
`` Let 's go on in and fetch out our guests from Emberlain . '' 
As Locke and Jean padded up the steps toward the Tumblehome , Calo motioned for Bug to give him a hand with the horse . 
The white-eyed creature was utterly without fear or personal initiative , but that same lack of self-preservation instincts might lead it to damage the barge very easily . 
After a few minutes of careful pushing and pulling , they had it positioned in the center of the barge , as calm as a statue that just happened to have lungs . 
`` Lovely creature , '' said Calo . 
`` I 've named him Impediment . 
You could use him as a table . 
Or a flying buttress . '' 
`` Gentled animals give me the bloody creeps . '' 
`` Whereas , '' said Calo , `` they give me the fucking creeps . 
But tenderfoots and softies prefer Gentled packhorses , and that 's our master merchant of Emberlain in a nutshell . '' 
Several more minutes passed , and Calo and Bug stood in amiable silence under the punishing sun , looking the part of an unremarkable barge crew waiting to receive a passenger of consequence from the bosom of the Tumblehome Inn . 
Soon enough , that passenger descended the stairs and coughed twice to get their attention . 
It was Locke , of course , but changed . 
His hair was slicked back with rose oil , the bones of his face seemed to shadow slightly deeper hollows in his cheeks , and his eyes were half concealed behind a pair of optics rimmed with black pearl and flashing silver in the sun . 
He was now dressed in a tightly buttoned black coat in the Emberlain style , almost form-fitted from his shoulders down to his ribs , then flaring out widely at the waist . 
Two black leather belts with polished silver buckles circled his stomach ; three ruffled layers of black silk cravats poured out of his collar and fluttered in the hot breeze . 
He wore embroidered gray hose over thick-heeled sharkskin shoes with black ribbon tongues that sprang somewhat ludicrously outward and hung over his feet with the drooping curl of hothouse flowers . 
Sweat was already beading on his forehead like little diamonds -- Camorr 's summer did not reward the intrusion of fashions from a more northerly climate . 
`` My name , '' said Locke Lamora , `` is Lukas Fehrwight . '' 
The voice was clipped and precise , scrubbed of Locke 's natural inflections . 
He layered the hint of a harsh Vadran accent atop a slight mangling of his native Camorri dialect like a barkeep mixing liquors . 
`` I am wearing clothes that will be full of sweat in several minutes . 
I am dumb enough to walk around Camorr without a blade of any sort . 
Also , '' he said with a hint of ponderous regret , `` I am entirely fictional . '' 
`` I 'm very sorry to hear that , Master Fehrwight , '' said Calo , `` but at least we 've got your boat and your horse ready for your grand excursion . '' 
Locke stepped carefully down toward the edge of the barge , swaying at the hips like a man newly off a ship and not yet used to surfaces that did n't tilt beneath his feet . 
His spine was arrow-straight , his movements nearly prissy . 
He wore the mannerisms of Lukas Fehrwight like a set of invisible clothes . 
`` My attendant will be along any moment , '' Locke/Fehrwight said as he/they stepped aboard the barge . 
`` His name is Graumann , and he too suffers from a slight case of being imaginary . '' 
`` Merciful gods , '' said Calo , `` it must be catching . '' 
Down the cobbled ramp came Jean , treading heavily under the weight of one hundred and twenty pounds of creaking horse 's harness , the embroidered leather packs crammed full of goods and strapped tightly shut . 
Jean now wore a white silk shirt , straining tight against his belly and already translucent in places with sweat , under an open black vest and a white neckerchief . 
His hair was parted in the middle and held in stasis by some thick black oil ; never picturesque , it now resembled two pads of wool arched over his forehead like a tenement roof . 
`` We 're behind schedule , Graumann . '' 
Locke clasped his hands behind his back . 
`` Do hurry up and let the poor horse do its job . '' 
Jean heaved his mess over the Gentled horse 's back , to no visible reaction from the animal . 
He then bent down and fastened the harness securely under the horse 's stomach . 
Bug passed the steering pole to Calo , then slipped the barge 's rope from the mooring post , and they were off once again . 
`` Would n't it be damned amusing , '' said Calo , `` if Don Salvara picked today to dodge out on his little ritual ? '' 
`` Do n't worry , '' said Locke , briefly dropping the voice if not the posture of Lukas Fehrwight . 
`` He 's quite devoted to his mother 's memory . 
A conscience can be as good as a water-clock , when it comes to keeping some appointments . '' 
`` From your lips to the gods ' ears . '' 
Calo worked the pole with cheerful ease . 
`` And no skin off my balls if you 're wrong . 
You 're the one wearing a ten-pound black felt coat in the middle of Parthis . '' 
They made headway up the Angevine and came abreast with the western edge of the Temple District on their right , passing beneath a wide glass arch as they did so . 
Standing atop the middle of this bridge was a lean , dark-haired man with looks and a nose to match Calo 's . 
As Calo poled the barge underneath the arch some fifty feet below , Galdo Sanza casually let a half-eaten red apple fall from his hands . 
The fruit hit the water with a quiet little splash just a yard or two behind his brother . 
`` Salvara 's at the temple ! '' 
Bug said . 
`` Sublime . '' 
Locke spread his hands and grinned . 
`` Did n't I tell you he suffered from an impeccable sense of maternal devotion ? '' 
`` I 'm so pleased that you only choose victims of the highest moral quality , '' said Calo . 
`` The wrong sort might set a bad example for Bug . '' 
At a public dock jutting from the northwestern shore of the Temple District , just under the heights of the city 's vast new House of Iono -LRB- Father of Storms , Lord of the Grasping Waters -RRB- , Jean tied them up in record time and led Impediment -- looking every bit the part of a wealthy merchant 's packhorse -- up off the barge . 
Locke followed with Fehrwight 's nervous dignity on full display ; all the banter was now banked down like coals under a cookfire . 
Bug darted off into the crowds , eager to take up his watch position over the alley junction where Don Salvara 's ambitions would soon be sorely tempted . 
Calo spotted Galdo just stepping off the glass bridge , and casually moved toward him . 
Both twins were unconsciously fingering the weapons concealed beneath their baggy shirts . 
By the time the Sanza brothers fell into step beside one another and began moving toward the rendezvous at the Temple of Fortunate Waters , Locke and Jean were already a block away , approaching from another direction . 
The game was afoot . 
For the fourth time in as many years , in quiet defiance of the most inviolate law of Camorr 's underworld , the Gentlemen Bastards were drawing a bead on one of the most powerful men in the city . 
They were headed for a meeting that might eventually divest Don Lorenzo Salvara of nearly half his worldly wealth ; now everything depended on the Don being punctual . 
5 BUG WAS in a perfect position to spot the foot patrol before anyone else did , which was according to the plan . 
The foot patrol itself was also in the plan , after a fashion . 
It meant the plan was blown . 
`` You 're going to be top-eyes on this game , Bug , '' Locke had explained . 
`` We 're deliberately making first touch on Salvara on the most deserted street in the Temple District . 
A spotter on the ground would be obvious a mile away , but a boy two stories up is another matter . '' 
`` What am I spotting for ? '' 
`` Whatever shows up . 
Duke Nicovante and the Nightglass Company . 
The king of the Seven Marrows . 
A little old lady with a dung-wagon . 
If we get interlopers , you just make the signal . 
Maybe you can distract common folk . 
If it 's the watch , well -- we can either play innocent or run like hell . '' 
And here were six men in mustard-yellow tabards and well-oiled fighting harness , with batons and blades clattering ominously against their doubled waistbelts , strolling up from the south just a few dozen paces away from the Temple of Fortunate Waters . 
