Arlen paused in his work , looking up at the lavender wash of the dawn sky . 
Mist still clung to the air , bringing with it a damp , acrid taste that was all too familiar . 
A quiet dread built in his gut as he waited in the morning stillness , hoping that it had been his imagination . 
He was eleven years old . 
There was a pause , and then the horn blew twice in rapid succession . 
One long and two short meant south and east . 
The Cluster by the Woods . 
His father had friends among the cutters . 
Behind Arlen , the door to the house opened , and he knew his mother would be there , covering her mouth with both hands . 
Arlen returned to his work , not needing to be told to hurry . 
Some chores could wait a day , but the stock still needed to be fed and the cows milked . 
He left the animals in the barns and opened the hay stores , slopped the pigs , and ran to fetch a wooden milk bucket . 
His mother was already squatting beneath the first of the cows . 
He snatched the spare stool and they found cadence in their work , the sound of milk striking wood drumming a funeral march . 
As they moved to the next pair down the line , Arlen saw his father begin hitching their strongest horse , a five-year-old chestnut-colored mare named Missy , to the cart . 
His face was grim as he worked . 
What would they find this time ? 
Before long , they were in the cart , trundling toward the small cluster of houses by the woods . 
It was dangerous there , over an hour 's run to the nearest warded structure , but the lumber was needed . 
Arlen 's mother , wrapped in her worn shawl , held him tightly as they rode . 
`` I 'm a big boy , Mam , '' Arlen complained . 
`` I do n't need you to hold me like a baby . 
I 'm not scared . '' 
It was n't entirely true , but it would not do for the other children to see him clinging to his mother as they rode in . 
They made mock of him enough as it was . 
`` I 'm scared , '' his mother said . 
`` What if it 's me who needs to be held ? '' 
Feeling suddenly proud , Arlen pulled close to his mother again as they traveled down the road . 
She could never fool him , but she always knew what to say just the same . 
A pillar of greasy smoke told them more than they wanted to know long before they reached their destination . 
They were burning the dead . 
And starting the fires this early , without waiting for others to arrive and pray , meant there were a great many . 
Too many to pray over each one , if the work was to be complete before dusk . 
It was more than five miles from Arlen 's father 's farm to the Cluster by the Woods . 
By the time they arrived , the few remaining cabin fires had been put out , though in truth there was little left to burn . 
Fifteen houses , all reduced to rubble and ash . 
`` The woodpiles , too , '' Arlen 's father said , spitting over the side of the cart . 
He gestured with his chin toward the blackened ruin that remained of a season 's cutting . 
Arlen grimaced at the thought of how the rickety fence that penned the animals would have to last another year , and immediately felt guilty . 
It was only wood , after all . 
The town Speaker approached their cart as it pulled up . 
Selia , whom Arlen 's mother sometimes called Selia the Barren , was a hard woman , tall and thin , with skin like tough leather . 
Her long gray hair was pulled into a tight bun , and she wore her shawl like a badge of office . 
She brooked no nonsense , as Arlen had learned more than once at the end of her stick , but today he was comforted by her presence . 
Like Arlen 's father , something about Selia made him feel safe . 
Though she had never had children of her own , Selia acted as a parent to everyone in Tibbet 's Brook . 
Few could match her wisdom , and fewer still her stubbornness . 
When you were on Selia 's good side , it felt like the safest place in the world . 
`` It 's good that you 've come , Jeph , '' Selia told Arlen 's father . 
`` Silvy and young Arlen , too , '' she said , nodding to them . 
`` We need every hand we can get . 
Even the boy can help . '' 
Arlen 's father grunted , stepping down from the cart . 
`` I brought my tools , '' he said . 
`` Just tell me where we can throw in . '' 
Arlen collected the precious tools from the back of their cart . 
Metal was scarce in the Brook , and his father was proud of his two shovels , his pick , and his saw . 
They would all see heavy use this day . 
`` How many lost ? '' 
Jeph asked , though he did n't really seem to want to know . 
`` Twenty-seven , '' Selia said . 
Silvy choked and covered her mouth , tears welling in her eyes . 
Jeph spat again . 
`` Any survivors ? '' 
he asked . 
`` A few , '' Selia said . 
`` Manie '' -- she pointed with her stick at a boy who stood staring at the funeral pyre -- `` ran all the way to my house in the dark . '' 
Silvy gasped . 
No one had ever run so far and lived . 
`` The wards on Brine Cutter 's house held for most of the night , '' Selia went on . 
`` He and his family watched everything . 
A few others fled the corelings and succored there , until the fires spread and their roof caught . 
They waited in the burning house until the beams started to crack , and then took their chances outside in the minutes before dawn . 
The corelings killed Brine 's wife Meena and their son Poul , but the others made it . 
The burns will heal and the children will be all right in time , but the others ... '' She did n't need to finish the sentence . 
Survivors of a demon attack had a way of dying soon after . 
Not all , or even most , but enough . 
Some of them took their own lives , and others simply stared blankly , refusing to eat or drink until they wasted away . 
It was said you did not truly survive an attack until a year and a day had passed . 
`` There are still a dozen unaccounted for , '' Selia said , but with little hope in her voice . 
`` We 'll dig them out , '' Jeph agreed grimly , looking at the collapsed houses , many still smoldering . 
The cutters built their homes mostly out of stone to protect against fire , but even stone would burn if the wards failed and enough flame demons gathered in one place . 
Jeph joined the other men and a few of the stronger women in clearing the rubble and carting the dead to the pyre . 
The bodies had to be burned , of course . 
No one would want to be buried in the same ground the demons rose out of each night . 
Tender Harral , the sleeves of his robe rolled up to bare his thick arms , lifted each into the fire himself , muttering prayers and drawing wards in the air as the flames took them . 
Silvy joined the other women in gathering the younger children and tending to the wounded under the watchful eye of the Brook 's Herb Gatherer , Coline Trigg . 
But no herbs could ease the pain of the survivors . 
Brine Cutter , also called Brine Broad-shoulders , was a great bear of a man with a booming laugh who used to throw Arlen into the air when they came to trade for wood . 
Now Brine sat in the ashes beside his ruined house , slowly knocking his head against the blackened wall . 
He muttered to himself and clutched his arms tightly , as if cold . 
Arlen and the other children were put to work carrying water and sorting through the woodpiles for salvageable lumber . 
There were still a few warm months left to the year , but there would not be time to cut enough wood to last the winter . 
They would be burning dung again this year , and the house would reek . 
Again Arlen weathered a wave of guilt . 
He was not in the pyre , nor banging his head in shock , having lost everything . 
There were worse fates than a house smelling of dung . 
More and more villagers arrived as the morning wore on . 
Bringing their families and whatever provisions they could spare , they came from Fishing Hole and Town Square ; they came from the Boggin 's Hill , and Soggy Marsh . 
Some even came all the way from Southwatch . 
And one by one , Selia greeted them with the grim news and put them to work . 
With more than a hundred hands , the men doubled their efforts , half of them continuing to dig as the others descended upon the only salvageable structure left in the Cluster : Brine Cutter 's house . 
Selia led Brine away , somehow supporting the giant man as he stumbled , while the men cleared the rubble and began hauling new stones . 
A few took out warding kits and began to paint fresh wards while children made thatch . 
The house would be restored by nightfall . 
Arlen was partnered with Cobie Fisher in hauling wood . 
The children had amassed a sizable pile , though it was only a fraction of what had been lost . 
Cobie was a tall , thickly built boy with dark curls and hairy arms . 
He was popular among the other children , but it was popularity built at others ' expense . 
Few children cared to weather his insults , and fewer still his beatings . 
Cobie had tortured Arlen for years , and the other children had gone along . 
Jeph 's farm was the northernmost in the Brook , far from where the children tended to gather in Town Square , and Arlen spent most of his free time wandering the Brook by himself . 
Sacrificing him to Cobie 's wrath seemed a fair trade to most children . 
Whenever Arlen went fishing , or passed by Fishing Hole on the way to Town Square , Cobie and his friends seemed to hear about it , and were waiting in the same spot on his way home . 
Sometimes they just called him names , or pushed him , but other times he came home bloody and bruised , and his mother shouted at him for fighting . 
Finally , Arlen had enough . 
He left a stout stick hidden in that spot , and the next time Cobie and his friends pounced , Arlen pretended to run , only to produce the weapon as if from thin air and come back swinging . 
Cobie was the first one struck , a hard blow that left him crying in the dirt with blood running from his ear . 
Willum received a broken finger , and Gart walked with a limp for over a week . 
It had done nothing to improve Arlen 's popularity among the other children , and Arlen 's father had caned him , but the other boys never bothered him again . 
Even now , Cobie gave him a wide berth and flinched if Arlen made a sudden move , even though he was bigger by far . 
`` Survivors ! '' 
Bil Baker called suddenly , standing by a collapsed house at the edge of the Cluster . 
`` I can hear them trapped in the root cellar ! '' 
Immediately , everyone dropped what they were doing and rushed over . 
Clearing the rubble would take too long , so the men began to dig , bending their backs with silent fervor . 
Soon after , they broke through the side of the cellar , and began hauling out the survivors . 
They were filthy and terrified , but all were very much alive . 
Three women , six children , and one man . 
`` Uncle Cholie ! '' 
Arlen cried , and his mother was there in an instant , cradling her brother , who stumbled drunkenly . 
Arlen ran to them , ducking under his other arm to steady him . 
`` Cholie , what are you doing here ? '' 
Silvy asked . 
Cholie seldom left his workshop in Town Square . 
Arlen 's mother had told the tale a thousand times of how she and her brother had run the farrier 's shop together before Jeph began breaking his horses ' shoes on purpose for a reason to come court . 
`` Came to court Ana Cutter , '' Cholie mumbled . 
He pulled at his hair , having already torn whole clumps free . 
`` We 'd just opened the bolt-hole when they came through the wards ... '' His knees buckled , pulling Arlen and Silvy down with his weight . 
Kneeling in the dirt , he wept . 
Arlen looked at the other survivors . 
Ana Cutter was n't among them . 
His throat tightened as the children passed . 
He knew every one of them ; their families , what their houses were like inside and out , their animals ' names . 
They met his eyes for a second as they went by , and in that moment , he lived the attack through their eyes . 
He saw himself shoved into a cramped hole in the ground while those unable to fit turned to face the corelings and the fire . 
Suddenly he started gasping , unable to stop until Jeph slapped him on the back and brought him to his senses . 
They were finishing a cold midday meal when a horn sounded on the far side of the Brook . 
`` Not two in one day ? '' 
Silvy gasped , covering her mouth . 
`` Bah , '' Selia grunted . 
`` At midday ? 
Use your head , girl ! '' 
`` Then what ... ? '' 
Selia ignored her , rising to fetch a horn blower to signal back . 
Keven Marsh had his horn ready , as the folks from Soggy Marsh always did . 
It was easy to get separated in the marshes , and no one wanted to be wandering lost when the swamp demons rose . 
Keven 's cheeks inflated like a frog 's chin as he blew a series of notes . 
`` Messenger horn , '' Coran Marsh advised Silvy . 
A graybeard , he was Speaker for Soggy Marsh and Keven 's father . 
`` They prob ' ly saw the smoke . 
Keven 's telling ’em what 's happened and where everyone is . '' 
`` A Messenger in spring ? '' 
Arlen asked . 
`` I thought they come in the fall after harvest . 
We only finished planting this past moon ! '' 
`` Messenger never came last fall , '' Coran said , spitting foamy brown juice from the root he was chewing through the gap of his missing teeth . 
`` We been worried sumpin ' happened . 
Thought we might not have a Messenger bring salt till next fall . 
Or maybe that the corelings got the Free Cities and we 's cut off . '' 
`` The corelings could never get the Free Cities , '' Arlen said . 
`` Arlen , shush your mouth ! '' 
Silvy hissed . 
`` He 's your elder ! '' 
`` Let the boy speak , '' Coran said . 
`` Ever bin to a free city , boy ? '' 
he asked Arlen . 
`` No , '' Arlen admitted . 
`` Ever know anyone who had ? '' 
`` No , '' Arlen said again . 
`` So what makes you such an expert ? '' 
Coran asked . 
`` Ent no one been to one ' cept the Messengers . 
They 're the only ones what brave the night to go so far . 
Who 's to say the Free Cities ent just places like the Brook ? 
If the corelings can get us , they can get them , too . '' 
`` Old Hog is from the Free Cities , '' Arlen said . 
Rusco Hog was the richest man in the Brook . 
He ran the general store , which was the crux of all commerce in Tibbet 's Brook . 
`` Ay , '' Coran said , `` an ' old Hog told me years ago that one trip was enough for him . 
He meant to go back after a few years , but said it was n't worth the risk . 
So you ask him if the Free Cities are any safer than anywhere else . '' 
Arlen did n't want to believe it . 
There had to be safe places in the world . 
But again the image of himself being thrown into the cellar flashed across his mind , and he knew that nowhere was truly safe at night . 
The Messenger arrived an hour later . 
He was a tall man in his early thirties , with cropped brown hair and a short , thick beard . 
Draped about his broad shoulders was a shirt of metal links , and he wore a long dark cloak with thick leather breeches and boots . 
His mare was a sleek brown courser . 
Strapped to the horse 's saddle was a harness holding a number of different spears . 
His face was grim as he approached , but his shoulders were high and proud . 
He scanned the crowd and spotted the Speaker easily as she stood giving orders . 
He turned his horse toward her . 
Riding a few paces behind on a heavily laden cart pulled by a pair of dark brown mollies was the Jongleur . 
His clothes were a brightly colored patchwork , and he had a lute resting on the bench next to him . 
His hair was a color Arlen had never seen before , like a pale carrot , and his skin was so fair it seemed the sun had never touched it . 
His shoulders slumped , and he looked thoroughly exhausted . 
There was always a Jongleur with the annual Messenger . 
To the children , and some of the adults , the Jongleur was the more important of the two . 
For as long as Arlen could remember , it had been the same man , gray-haired but spry and full of cheer . 
This new one was younger , and he seemed sullen . 
Children ran to him immediately , and the young Jongleur perked up , the frustration melting from his face so quickly Arlen began to doubt it was ever there . 
In an instant , the Jongleur was off the cart and spinning his colored balls into the air as the children cheered . 
Others , Arlen among them , forgot their work , drifting toward the newcomers . 
Selia whirled on them , having none of it . 
`` The day is no longer because the Messenger 's come ! '' 
she barked . 
`` Back to your work ! '' 
There were grumbles , but everyone went back to work . 
`` Not you , Arlen , '' Selia said . 
`` Come here . '' 
Arlen pulled his eyes from the Jongleur and went to her as the Messenger arrived . 
`` Selia Barren ? '' 
the Messenger asked . 
`` Just Selia will do , '' Selia replied primly . 
The Messenger 's eyes widened , and he blushed , the tops of his pale cheeks turning a deep red above his beard . 
He leapt down from his horse and bowed low . 
`` Apologies , '' he said . 
`` I did not think . 
Graig , your usual Messenger , told me that 's what you were called . '' 
`` It 's pleasing to know what Graig thinks of me after all these years , '' Selia said , sounding not at all pleased . 
`` Thought , '' the Messenger corrected . 
`` He 's dead , ma’am . '' 
`` Dead ? '' 
Selia asked , looking suddenly sad . 
`` Was it ... ? '' 
The Messenger shook his head . 
`` It was a chill took him , not corelings . 
I 'm Ragen , your Messenger this year , as a favor to his widow . 
The guild will select a new Messenger for you starting next fall . '' 
`` A year and a half again before the next Messenger ? '' 
Selia asked , sounding like she was readying a scolding . 
`` We barely made it through this past winter without the fall salt , '' she said . 
`` I know you take it for granted in Miln , but half our meat and fish spoiled for lack of proper curing . 
And what of our letters ? '' 
`` Sorry , ma’am , '' Ragen said . 
`` Your towns are well off the common roads , and paying a Messenger to commit for a month and more of travel each year is costly . 
The Messengers ' Guild is shorthanded , what with Graig catching that chill . '' 
He chuckled and shook his head , but noticed Selia 's visage darken in response . 
`` No offense meant , ma’am , '' Ragen said . 
`` He was my friend as well . 
It 's just ... it 's not many of us Messengers get to go with a roof above , a bed below , and a young wife at our side . 
The night usually gets us before that , you see ? '' 
`` I do , '' Selia said . 
`` Do you have a wife , Ragen ? '' 
she asked . 
`` Ay , '' the Messenger said , `` though to her pleasure and my pain , I see my mare more than my bride . '' 
He laughed , confusing Arlen , who did n't think having a wife not miss you was funny . 
Selia did n't seem to notice . 
`` What if you could n't see her at all ? '' 
she asked . 
`` What if all you had were letters once a year to connect you to her ? 
How would you feel to hear your letters would be delayed half a year ? 
There are some in this town with kin in the Free Cities . 
Left with one Messenger or another , some as much as two generations gone . 
Those people ent going to come home , Ragen . 
Letters are all we have of them , and they of us . '' 
`` I am in full agreement with you , ma’am , '' Ragen said , `` but the decision is not mine to make . 
The duke ... '' `` But you will speak to the duke upon your return , yes ? '' 
Selia asked . 
`` I will , '' he said . 
`` Shall I write the message down for you ? '' 
Selia asked . 
Ragen smiled . 
`` I think I can remember it , ma’am . '' 
`` See that you do . '' 
Ragen bowed again , still lower . 
`` Apologies , for coming to call on such a dark day , '' he said , his eyes flicking to the funeral pyre . 
`` We can not tell the rain when to come , nor the wind , nor the cold , '' Selia said . 
`` Not the corelings , either . 
So life must go on despite these things . '' 
`` Life goes on , '' Ragen agreed , `` but if there 's anything I or my Jongleur can do to help ; I 've a strong back and I 've treated coreling wounds many times . '' 
`` Your Jongleur is helping already , '' Selia said , nodding toward the young man as he sang and did his tricks , `` distracting the young ones while their kin do their work . 
As for you , I 've much to do over the next few days , if we 're to recover from this loss . 
I wo n't have time to hand the mail and read to those who have n't learned their letters . '' 
`` I can read to those who ca n't , ma’am , '' Ragen said , `` but I do n't know your town well enough to distribute . '' 
`` No need , '' Selia said , pulling Arlen forward . 
`` Arlen here will take you to the general store in Town Square . 
Give the letters and packages to Rusco Hog when you deliver the salt . 
Most everyone will come running now that the salt 's in , and Rusco 's one of the few in town with letters and numbers . 
The old crook will complain and try to insist on payment , but you tell him that in time of trouble , the whole town must throw in . 
You tell him to give out the letters and read to those who ca n't , or I 'll not lift a finger the next time the town wants to throw a rope around his neck . '' 
Ragen looked closely at Selia , perhaps trying to tell if she was joking , but her stony face gave no indication . 
He bowed again . 
`` Hurry along , then , '' Selia said . 
`` Lift your feet and you 'll both be back as everyone is readying to leave here for the night . 
If you and your Jongleur do n't want to pay Rusco for a room , any here will be glad to offer their homes . '' 
She shooed the two of them away and turned back to scold those pausing their work to stare at the newcomers . 
`` Is she always so ... forceful ? '' 
Ragen asked Arlen as they walked over to where the Jongleur was mumming for the youngest children . 
