The enormous stone beast lay on its side , riblike protrusions from its chest broken and cracked . 
The monstrosity was vaguely skeletal in shape , with unnaturally long limbs that sprouted from granite shoulders . 
The eyes were deep red spots on the arrowhead face , as if created by a fire burning deep within the stone . 
They faded . 
Even after all these centuries , seeing a thunderclast up close made Kalak shiver . 
The beast 's hand was as long as a man was tall . 
He 'd been killed by hands like those before , and it had n't been pleasant . 
Of course , dying rarely was . 
He rounded the creature , picking his way more carefully across the battlefield . 
The plain was a place of misshapen rock and stone , natural pillars rising around him , bodies littering the ground . 
Few plants lived here . 
The stone ridges and mounds bore numerous scars . 
Some were shattered , blasted-out sections where Surgebinders had fought . 
Less frequently , he passed cracked , oddly shaped hollows where thunderclasts had ripped themselves free of the stone to join the fray . 
Many of the bodies around him were human ; many were not . 
Blood mixed . 
Red . 
Orange . 
Violet . 
Though none of the bodies around him stirred , an indistinct haze of sounds hung in the air . 
Moans of pain , cries of grief . 
They did not seem like the sounds of victory . 
Smoke curled from the occasional patches of growth or heaps of burning corpses . 
Even some sections of rock smoldered . 
The Dustbringers had done their work well . 
But I survived , Kalak thought , hand to breast as he hastened to the meeting place . 
I actually survived this time . 
That was dangerous . 
When he died , he was sent back , no choice . 
When he survived the Desolation , he was supposed to go back as well . 
Back to that place that he dreaded . 
Back to that place of pain and fire . 
What if he just decided ... not to go ? 
Perilous thoughts , perhaps traitorous thoughts . 
He hastened on his way . 
The place of meeting was in the shadow of a large rock formation , a spire rising into the sky . 
As always , the ten of them had decided upon it before the battle . 
The survivors would make their way here . 
Oddly , only one of the others was waiting for him . 
Jezrien . 
Had the other eight all died ? 
It was possible . 
The battle had been so furious this time , one of the worst . 
The enemy was growing increasingly tenacious . 
But no . 
Kalak frowned as he stepped up to the base of the spire . 
Seven magnificent swords stood proudly here , driven point-first into the stone ground . 
Each was a masterly work of art , flowing in design , inscribed with glyphs and patterns . 
He recognized each one . 
If their masters had died , the Blades would have vanished . 
These Blades were weapons of power beyond even Shardblades . 
These were unique . 
Precious . 
Jezrien stood outside the ring of swords , looking eastward . 
`` Jezrien ? '' 
The figure in white and blue glanced toward him . 
Even after all these centuries , Jezrien looked young , like a man barely into his thirtieth year . 
His short black beard was neatly trimmed , though his once-fine clothing was scorched and stained with blood . 
He folded his arms behind his back as he turned to Kalak . 
`` What is this , Jezrien ? '' 
Kalak asked . 
`` Where are the others ? '' 
`` Departed . '' 
Jezrien 's voice was calm , deep , regal . 
Though he had n't worn a crown in centuries , his royal manner lingered . 
He always seemed to know what to do . 
`` You might call it a miracle . 
Only one of us died this time . '' 
`` Talenel , '' Kalak said . 
His was the only Blade unaccounted for . 
`` Yes . 
He died holding that passage by the northern waterway . '' 
Kalak nodded . 
Taln had a tendency to choose seemingly hopeless fights and win them . 
He also had a tendency to die in the process . 
He would be back now , in the place where they went between Desolations . 
The place of nightmares . 
Kalak found himself shaking . 
When had he become so weak ? 
`` Jezrien , I ca n't return this time . '' 
Kalak whispered the words , stepping up and gripping the other man 's arm . 
`` I ca n't . '' 
Kalak felt something within him break at the admission . 
How long had it been ? 
Centuries , perhaps millennia , of torture . 
It was so hard to keep track . 
Those fires , those hooks , digging into his flesh anew each day . 
Searing the skin off his arm , then burning the fat , then driving to the bone . 
He could smell it . 
Almighty , he could smell it ! 
`` Leave your sword , '' Jezrien said . 
`` What ? '' 
Jezrien nodded to the ring of weapons . 
`` I was chosen to wait for you . 
We were n't certain if you had survived . 
A ... a decision has been made . 
It is time for the Oathpact to end . '' 
Kalak felt a sharp stab of horror . 
`` What will that do ? '' 
`` Ishar believes that so long as there is one of us still bound to the Oathpact , it may be enough . 
There is a chance we might end the cycle of Desolations . '' 
Kalak looked into the immortal king 's eyes . 
Black smoke rose from a small patch to their left . 
Groans of the dying haunted them from behind . 
There , in Jezrien 's eyes , Kalak saw anguish and grief . 
Perhaps even cowardice . 
This was a man hanging from a cliff by a thread . 
Almighty above , Kalak thought . 
You 're broken too , are n't you ? 
They all were . 
Kalak turned and walked to the side , where a low ridge overlooked part of the battlefield . 
There were so many corpses , and among them walked the living . 
Men in primitive wraps , carrying spears topped by bronze heads . 
Juxtaposed between them were others in gleaming plate armor . 
One group walked past , four men in their ragged tanned skins or shoddy leather joining a powerful figure in beautiful silver plate , amazingly intricate . 
Such a contrast . 
Jezrien stepped up beside him . 
`` They see us as divinities , '' Kalak whispered . 
`` They rely upon us , Jezrien . 
We 're all that they have . '' 
`` They have the Radiants . 
That will be enough . '' 
Kalak shook his head . 
`` He will not remain bound by this . 
The enemy . 
He will find a way around it . 
You know he will . '' 
`` Perhaps . '' 
The king of Heralds offered no further explanation . 
`` And Taln ? '' 
Kalak asked . 
The flesh burning . 
The fires . 
The pain over and over and over ... `` Better that one man should suffer than ten , '' Jezrien whispered . 
He seemed so cold . 
Like a shadow caused by heat and light falling on someone honorable and true , casting this black imitation behind . 
Jezrien walked back to the ring of swords . 
His own Blade formed in his hands , appearing from mist , wet with condensation . 
`` It has been decided , Kalak . 
We will go our ways , and we will not seek out one another . 
Our Blades must be left . 
The Oathpact ends now . '' 
He lifted his sword and rammed it into the stone with the other seven . 
Jezrien hesitated , looking at the sword , then bowed his head and turned away . 
As if ashamed . 
`` We chose this burden willingly . 
Well , we can choose to drop it if we wish . '' 
`` What do we tell the people , Jezrien ? '' 
Kalak asked . 
`` What will they say of this day ? '' 
`` It 's simple , '' Jezrien said , walking away . 
`` We tell them that they finally won . 
It 's an easy enough lie . 
Who knows ? 
Maybe it will turn out to be true . '' 
Kalak watched Jezrien depart across the burned landscape . 
Finally , he summoned his own Blade and slammed it into the stone beside the other eight . 
He turned and walked in the direction opposite from Jezrien . 
And yet , he could not help glancing back at the ring of swords and the single open spot . 
The place where the tenth sword should have gone . 
The one of them who was lost . 
The one they had abandoned . 
Forgive us , Kalak thought , then left . 
Map of Alethkar and surroundings , created by His Majesty Gavilar Kholin 's royal surveyors , circa 1167 . 
`` The love of men is a frigid thing , a mountain stream only three steps from the ice . 
We are his . 
Oh Stormfather ... we are his . 
It is but a thousand days , and the Everstorm comes . '' 
-- Collected on the first day of the week Palah of the month Shash of the year 1171 , thirty-one seconds before death . 
Subject was a darkeyed pregnant woman of middle years . 
The child did not survive . 
Szeth-son-son-Vallano , Truthless of Shinovar , wore white on the day he was to kill a king . 
The white clothing was a Parshendi tradition , foreign to him . 
But he did as his masters required and did not ask for an explanation . 
He sat in a large stone room , baked by enormous firepits that cast a garish light upon the revelers , causing beads of sweat to form on their skin as they danced , and drank , and yelled , and sang , and clapped . 
Some fell to the ground red-faced , the revelry too much for them , their stomachs proving to be inferior wineskins . 
They looked as if they were dead , at least until their friends carried them out of the feast hall to waiting beds . 
Szeth did not sway to the drums , drink the sapphire wine , or stand to dance . 
He sat on a bench at the back , a still servant in white robes . 
Few at the treaty-signing celebration noticed him . 
He was just a servant , and Shin were easy to ignore . 
Most out here in the East thought Szeth 's kind were docile and harmless . 
They were generally right . 
The drummers began a new rhythm . 
The beats shook Szeth like a quartet of thumping hearts , pumping waves of invisible blood through the room . 
Szeth 's masters -- who were dismissed as savages by those in more civilized kingdoms -- sat at their own tables . 
They were men with skin of black marbled with red . 
Parshendi , they were named -- cousins to the more docile servant peoples known as parshmen in most of the world . 
An oddity . 
They did not call themselves Parshendi ; this was the Alethi name for them . 
It meant , roughly , `` parshmen who can think . '' 
Neither side seemed to see that as an insult . 
The Parshendi had brought the musicians . 
At first , the Alethi lighteyes had been hesitant . 
To them , drums were base instruments of the common , darkeyed people . 
But wine was the great assassin of both tradition and propriety , and now the Alethi elite danced with abandon . 
Szeth stood and began to pick his way through the room . 
The revelry had lasted long ; even the king had retired hours ago . 
But many still celebrated . 
As he walked , Szeth was forced to step around Dalinar Kholin -- the king 's own brother -- who slumped drunken at a small table . 
The aging but powerfully built man kept waving away those who tried to encourage him to bed . 
Where was Jasnah , the king 's daughter ? 
Elhokar , the king 's son and heir , sat at the high table , ruling the feast in his father 's absence . 
He was in conversation with two men , a dark-skinned Azish man who had an odd patch of pale skin on his cheek and a thinner , Alethi-looking man who kept glancing over his shoulder . 
The heir 's feasting companions were unimportant . 
Szeth stayed far from the heir , skirting the sides of the room , passing the drummers . 
Musicspren zipped through the air around them , the tiny spirits taking the form of spinning translucent ribbons . 
As Szeth passed the drummers , they noted him . 
They would withdraw soon , along with all of the other Parshendi . 
They did not seem offended . 
They did not seem angry . 
And yet they were going to break their treaty of only a few hours . 
It made no sense . 
But Szeth did not ask questions . 
At the edge of the room , he passed rows of unwavering azure lights that bulged out where wall met floor . 
They held sapphires infused with Stormlight . 
Profane . 
How could the men of these lands use something so sacred for mere illumination ? 
Worse , the Alethi scholars were said to be close to creating new Shardblades . 
Szeth hoped that was just wishful boasting . 
For if it did happen , the world would be changed . 
Likely in a way that ended with people in all countries -- from distant Thaylenah to towering Jah Keved -- speaking Alethi to their children . 
They were a grand people , these Alethi . 
Even drunk , there was a natural nobility to them . 
Tall and well made , the men dressed in dark silk coats that buttoned down the sides of the chest and were elaborately embroidered in silver or gold . 
Each one looked a general on the field . 
The women were even more splendid . 
They wore grand silk dresses , tightly fitted , the bright colors a contrast to the dark tones favored by the men . 
The left sleeve of each dress was longer than the right one , covering the hand . 
Alethi had an odd sense of propriety . 
Their pure black hair was pinned up atop their heads , either in intricate weavings of braids or in loose piles . 
It was often woven with gold ribbons or ornaments , along with gems that glowed with Stormlight . 
Beautiful . 
Profane , but beautiful . 
Szeth left the feasting chamber behind . 
Just outside , he passed the doorway into the Beggars ' Feast . 
It was an Alethi tradition , a room where some of the poorest men and women in the city were given a feast complementing that of the king and his guests . 
A man with a long grey and black beard slumped in the doorway , smiling foolishly -- though whether from wine or a weak mind , Szeth could not tell . 
`` Have you seen me ? '' 
the man asked with slurred speech . 
He laughed , then began to speak in gibberish , reaching for a wineskin . 
So it was drink after all . 
Szeth brushed by , continuing past a line of statues depicting the Ten Heralds from ancient Vorin theology . 
Jezerezeh , Ishi , Kelek , Talenelat . 
He counted off each one , and realized there were only nine here . 
One was conspicuously missing . 
Why had Shalash 's statue been removed ? 
King Gavilar was said to be very devout in his Vorin worship . 
Too devout , by some people 's standards . 
The hallway here curved to the right , running around the perimeter of the domed palace . 
They were on the king 's floor , two levels up , surrounded by rock walls , ceiling , and floor . 
That was profane . 
Stone was not to be trod upon . 
But what was he to do ? 
He was Truthless . 
He did as his masters demanded . 
Today , that included wearing white . 
Loose white trousers tied at the waist with a rope , and over them a filmy shirt with long sleeves , open at the front . 
White clothing for a killer was a tradition among the Parshendi . 
Although Szeth had not asked , his masters had explained why . 
White to be bold . 
White to not blend into the night . 
White to give warning . 
For if you were going to assassinate a man , he was entitled to see you coming . 
Szeth turned right , taking the hallway directly toward the king 's chambers . 
Torches burned on the walls , their light unsatisfying to him , a meal of thin broth after a long fast . 
Tiny flamespren danced around them , like insects made solely of congealed light . 
The torches were useless to him . 
He reached for his pouch and the spheres it contained , but then hesitated when he saw more of the blue lights ahead : a pair of Stormlight lamps hanging on the wall , brilliant sapphires glowing at their hearts . 
Szeth walked up to one of these , holding out his hand to cup it around the glass-shrouded gemstone . 
`` You there ! '' 
a voice called in Alethi . 
There were two guards at the intersection . 
Double guard , for there were savages abroad in Kholinar this night . 
True , those savages were supposed to be allies now . 
But alliances could be shallow things indeed . 
This one would n't last the hour . 
Szeth looked as the two guards approached . 
They carried spears ; they were n't lighteyes , and were therefore forbidden the sword . 
Their painted red breastplates were ornate , however , as were their helms . 
They might be darkeyed , but they were high-ranking citizens with honored positions in the royal guard . 
Stopping a few feet away , the guard at the front gestured with his spear . 
`` Go on , now . 
This is no place for you . '' 
He had tan Alethi skin and a thin mustache that ran all the way around his mouth , becoming a beard at the bottom . 
Szeth did n't move . 
`` Well ? '' 
the guard said . 
`` What are you waiting for ? '' 
Szeth breathed in deeply , drawing forth the Stormlight . 
It streamed into him , siphoned from the twin sapphire lamps on the walls , sucked in as if by his deep inhalation . 
The Stormlight raged inside of him , and the hallway suddenly grew darker , falling into shade like a hilltop cut off from the sun by a transient cloud . 
Szeth could feel the Light 's warmth , its fury , like a tempest that had been injected directly into his veins . 
The power of it was invigorating but dangerous . 
It pushed him to act . 
To move . 
To strike . 
Holding his breath , he clung to the Stormlight . 
He could still feel it leaking out . 
Stormlight could be held for only a short time , a few minutes at most . 
It leaked away , the human body too porous a container . 
He had heard that the Voidbringers could hold it in perfectly . 
But , then , did they even exist ? 
His punishment declared that they did n't . 
His honor demanded that they did . 
Afire with holy energy , Szeth turned to the guards . 
They could see that he was leaking Stormlight , wisps of it curling from his skin like luminescent smoke . 
The lead guard squinted , frowning . 
Szeth was sure the man had never seen anything like it before . 
As far as he knew , Szeth had killed every stonewalker who had ever seen what he could do . 
`` What ... what are you ? '' 
The guard 's voice had lost its certainty . 
`` Spirit or man ? '' 
`` What am I ? '' 
Szeth whispered , a bit of Light leaking from his lips as he looked past the man down the long hallway . 
