It was barely an hour since they 'd routed the Khalidorans , when the monstrous ferali forged to devour Cenaria 's army had turned instead on its Khalidoran masters . 
Logan had issued the orders that seemed most pressing , then dismissed everyone to join the revelries that were sweeping the Cenarian camp . 
Terah Graesin came to him alone . 
He was sitting on a low rock , heedless of the mud . 
His fine clothes were so spattered with blood and worse they were a total loss anyway . 
Terah 's dress , by contrast , was clean except for the lower fringe . 
She wore high shoes , but even those could n't keep her entirely free of the thick mud . 
She stopped before him . 
He did n't stand . 
She pretended not to notice . 
He pretended not to notice that her bodyguards -- unbloodied from battle -- were hidden in the trees less than a hundred paces away . 
Terah Graesin could have only one reason to come to him : she was wondering if she was still the queen . 
If Logan had n't been so bone-weary , he would have been amused . 
Terah had come to him alone as a show of vulnerability or fearlessness . 
`` You were a hero today , '' Terah said . 
`` You stopped the Godking 's beast . 
They 're saying you killed him . '' 
Logan shook his head . 
He 'd stabbed the ferali , and then the Godking had left it , but other men had given it more grievous wounds than he had . 
Something else had stopped the Godking , not Logan . 
`` You commanded it to destroy our enemies , and it did . 
You saved Cenaria . '' 
Logan shrugged . 
It already seemed long ago . 
`` I guess the question is , '' Terah Graesin said , `` did you save Cenaria for yourself , or for all of us ? '' 
Logan spat at her feet . 
`` Do n't give me that horseshit , Terah . 
You think you 're going to manipulate me ? 
You 've got nothing to offer , nothing to threaten . 
You 've got a question for me ? 
Have a little respect and just fucking ask . '' 
Terah 's back stiffened , her chin lifted , and one hand twitched , but then she stopped . 
It was the hand twitch that captured Logan 's attention . 
If she had raised her hand , was that the sign for her men to attack ? 
Logan looked past her into the woods at the edge of the field , but the first thing he saw was n't her men . 
He saw his own . 
Agon 's Dogs -- including two of the astoundingly talented archers Agon had armed with Ymmuri bows and made wytch hunters -- had stealthily circled behind Terah 's bodyguards . 
Both wytch hunters had arrows nocked , but not drawn . 
Both men had obviously taken care to stand where Logan could see them clearly , because none of the other Dogs were clearly visible . 
One archer was alternately looking at Logan and at a target in the woods . 
Logan followed his eyes and saw Terah 's hidden archer , aiming at Logan , waiting for Terah 's signal . 
The other wytch hunter was staring at Terah Graesin 's back . 
They were waiting for Logan 's signal . 
Logan should have known his streetwise followers would n't leave him alone when Terah Graesin was near . 
He looked at Terah . 
She was slim , pretty , with imperious green eyes that reminded Logan of his mother 's . 
Terah thought Logan did n't know about her men in the woods . 
She thought Logan did n't know that she had the stronger hand . 
`` You swore fealty to me this morning under less than ideal circumstances , '' Terah said . 
`` Do you intend to keep your troth , or do you intend to make yourself king ? '' 
She could n't ask the question straight , could she ? 
It just was n't in her , not even when she thought she had total control over Logan . 
She would not make a good queen . 
Logan thought he 'd already made his decision , but he hesitated . 
He remembered how it felt to be powerless in the Hole , how it felt to be powerless when Jenine , his just-wed wife , had been murdered . 
He remembered how disconcertingly wonderful it felt to tell Kylar to kill Gorkhy and see it done . 
He wondered if he would feel the same pleasure at seeing Terah Graesin die . 
With one nod toward those wytch hunters , he would find out . 
He would never feel powerless again . 
His father had told him , `` An oath is the measure of the man who gives it . '' 
Logan had seen what happened when he did what he knew was right , no matter how foolish it looked at the time . 
That was what rallied the Holers around him . 
That was what had saved his life when he was feverish and barely conscious . 
That was what had made Lilly -- the woman the Khalidorans crafted into the ferali -- turn on the Khalidorans . 
Ultimately , Logan 's doing what was right had saved all of Cenaria . 
But his father Regnus Gyre had lived by his oaths , through a miserable marriage and miserable service to a petty , wicked king . 
He gritted his teeth all day and slept well every night . 
Logan did n't know if he was as much of a man as his father . 
He could n't do it . 
So he hesitated . 
If she raised her hand to order her men to attack , she would be breaking the covenant between lord and vassal . 
If she broke it , he would be free . 
`` Our soldiers proclaimed me king . '' 
Logan said in a neutral tone . 
Lose your temper , Terah . 
Order the attack . 
Order your own death . 
Terah 's eyes lit , but her voice was steady and her hand did n't move . 
`` Men say many things in the heat of battle . 
I am prepared to forgive this indiscretion . '' 
Is this what Kylar saved me for ? 
No . 
But this is the man I am . 
I am my father 's son . 
Logan stood slowly so as not to alarm either side 's archers , then , slowly , he knelt and touched Terah Graesin 's feet in submission . 
Late that night , a band of Khalidorans attacked the Cenarian camp , killing dozens of drunken revelers before fleeing into the darkness . 
In the morning , Terah Graesin sent Logan Gyre and a thousand of his men to hunt them down . 
