_ -RRB- _ 3 May . 
Bistritz . 
_ -- Left Munich at 8:35 P. M. , on 1st May , arriving at Vienna early next morning ; should have arrived at 6:46 , but train was an hour late . 
Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place , from the glimpse which I got of it from the train and the little I could walk through the streets . 
I feared to go very far from the station , as we had arrived late and would start as near the correct time as possible . 
The impression I had was that we were leaving the West and entering the East ; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube , which is here of noble width and depth , took us among the traditions of Turkish rule . 
We left in pretty good time , and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh . 
Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale . 
I had for dinner , or rather supper , a chicken done up some way with red pepper , which was very good but thirsty . 
-LRB- _ Mem . 
_ , get recipe for Mina . -RRB- 
I asked the waiter , and he said it was called ` paprika hendl , ' and that , as it was a national dish , I should be able to get it anywhere along the Carpathians . 
I found my smattering of German very useful here ; indeed , I do n't know how I should be able to get on without it . 
Having had some time at my disposal when in London , I had visited the British Museum , and made search among the books and maps in the library regarding Transylvania ; it had struck me that some foreknowledge of the country could hardly fail to have some importance in dealing with a nobleman of that country . 
I find that the district he named is in the extreme east of the country , just on the borders of three states , Transylvania , Moldavia and Bukovina , in the midst of the Carpathian mountains ; one of the wildest and least known portions of Europe . 
I was not able to light on any map or work giving the exact locality of the Castle Dracula , as there are no maps of this country as yet to compare with our own Ordnance Survey maps ; but I found that Bistritz , the post town named by Count Dracula , is a fairly well-known place . 
I shall enter here some of my notes , as they may refresh my memory when I talk over my travels with Mina . 
In the population of Transylvania there are four distinct nationalities : Saxons in the South , and mixed with them the Wallachs , who are the descendants of the Dacians ; Magyars in the West , and Szekelys in the East and North . 
I am going among the latter , who claim to be descended from Attila and the Huns . 
This may be so , for when the Magyars conquered the country in the eleventh century they found the Huns settled in it . 
I read that every known superstition in the world is gathered into the horseshoe of the Carpathians , as if it were the centre of some sort of imaginative whirlpool ; if so my stay may be very interesting . 
-LRB- _ Mem . 
_ , I must ask the Count all about them . -RRB- 
I did not sleep well , though my bed was comfortable enough , for I had all sorts of queer dreams . 
There was a dog howling all night under my window , which may have had something to do with it ; or it may have been the paprika , for I had to drink up all the water in my carafe , and was still thirsty . 
Towards morning I slept and was wakened by the continuous knocking at my door , so I guess I must have been sleeping soundly then . 
I had for breakfast more paprika , and a sort of porridge of maize flour which they said was ` mamaliga , ' and egg-plant stuffed with forcemeat , a very excellent dish , which they call ` impletata . ' 
-LRB- _ Mem . 
_ , get recipe for this also . -RRB- 
I had to hurry breakfast , for the train started a little before eight , or rather it ought to have done so , for after rushing to the station at 7:30 I had to sit in the carriage for more than an hour before we began to move . 
It seems to me that the further east you go the more unpunctual are the trains . 
What ought they to be in China ? 
All day long we seemed to dawdle through a country which was full of beauty of every kind . 
Sometimes we saw little towns or castles on the top of steep hills such as we see in old missals ; sometimes we ran by rivers and streams which seemed from the wide stony margin on each side of them to be subject to great floods . 
It takes a lot of water , and running strong , to sweep the outside edge of a river clear . 
At every station there were groups of people , sometimes crowds , and in all sorts of attire . 
Some of them were just like the peasants at home or those I saw coming through France and Germany , with short jackets and round hats and home-made trousers ; but others were very picturesque . 
The women looked pretty , except when you got near them , but they were very clumsy about the waist . 
They had all full white sleeves of some kind or other , and most of them had big belts with a lot of strips of something fluttering from them like the dresses in a ballet , but of course there were petticoats under them . 
The strangest figures we saw were the Slovaks , who were more barbarian than the rest , with their big cow-boy hats , great baggy dirty-white trousers , white linen shirts , and enormous heavy leather belts , nearly a foot wide , all studded over with brass nails . 
They wore high boots , with their trousers tucked into them , and had long black hair and heavy black moustaches . 
They are very picturesque , but do not look prepossessing . 
On the stage they would be set down at once as some old Oriental band of brigands . 
They are , however , I am told , very harmless and rather wanting in natural self-assertion . 
It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to Bistritz , which is a very interesting old place . 
Being practically on the frontier -- for the Borgo Pass leads from it into Bukovina -- it has had a very stormy existence , and it certainly shows marks of it . 
Fifty years ago a series of great fires took place , which made terrible havoc on five separate occasions . 
At the very beginning of the seventeenth century it underwent a siege of three weeks and lost 13,000 people , the casualties of war proper being assisted by famine and disease . 
Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden Krone Hotel , which I found , to my great delight , to be thoroughly old-fashioned , for of course I wanted to see all I could of the ways of the country . 
I was evidently expected , for when I got near the door I faced a cheery-looking elderly woman in the usual peasant dress -- white undergarment with long double apron , front , and back , of coloured stuff fitting almost too tight for modesty . 
When I came close she bowed and said , ` The Herr Englishman ? ' 
` Yes , ' I said , ` Jonathan Harker . ' 
She smiled , and gave some message to an elderly man in white shirt-sleeves , who had followed her to the door . 
He went , but immediately returned with a letter : -- ` My Friend . 
-- Welcome to the Carpathians . 
I am anxiously expecting you . 
Sleep well to-night . 
At three to-morrow the diligence will start for Bukovina ; a place on it is kept for you . 
At the Borgo Pass my carriage will await you and will bring you to me . 
I trust that your journey from London has been a happy one , and that you will enjoy your stay in my beautiful land . 
` Your friend , ` DRACULA . ' 
_ 4 May . 
_ -- I found that my landlord had got a letter from the Count , directing him to secure the best place on the coach for me ; but on making inquiries as to details he seemed somewhat reticent , and pretended that he could not understand my German . 
This could not be true , because up to then he had understood it perfectly ; at least , he answered my questions exactly as if he did . 
He and his wife , the old lady who had received me , looked at each other in a frightened sort of way . 
He mumbled out that the money had been sent in a letter , and that was all he knew . 
When I asked him if he knew Count Dracula , and could tell me anything of his castle , both he and his wife crossed themselves , and , saying that they knew nothing at all , simply refused to speak further . 
It was so near the time of starting that I had no time to ask any one else , for it was all very mysterious and not by any means comforting . 
Just before I was leaving , the old lady came up to my room and said in a very hysterical way : ` Must you go ? 
Oh ! 
young Herr , must you go ? ' 
She was in such an excited state that she seemed to have lost her grip of what German she knew , and mixed it all up with some other language which I did not know at all . 
I was just able to follow her by asking many questions . 
When I told her that I must go at once , and that I was engaged on important business , she asked again : ` Do you know what day it is ? ' 
I answered that it was the fourth of May . 
She shook her head as she said again : ` Oh , yes ! 
I know that ! 
I know that , but do you know what day it is ? ' 
On my saying that I did not understand , she went on : ` It is the eve of St. George 's Day . 
Do you not know that to-night , when the clock strikes midnight , all the evil things in the world will have full sway ? 
Do you know where you are going , and what you are going to ? ' 
She was in such evident distress that I tried to comfort her , but without effect . 
Finally she went down on her knees and implored me not to go ; at least to wait a day or two before starting . 
It was all very ridiculous but I did not feel comfortable . 
However , there was business to be done , and I could allow nothing to interfere with it . 
I therefore tried to raise her up , and said , as gravely as I could , that I thanked her , but my duty was imperative , and that I must go . 
She then rose and dried her eyes , and taking a crucifix from her neck offered it to me . 
I did not know what to do , for , as an English Churchman , I have been taught to regard such things as in some measure idolatrous , and yet it seemed so ungracious to refuse an old lady meaning so well and in such a state of mind . 
She saw , I suppose , the doubt in my face , for she put the rosary round my neck , and said , ` For your mother 's sake , ' and went out of the room . 
I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am waiting for the coach , which is , of course , late ; and the crucifix is still round my neck . 
Whether it is the old lady 's fear , or the many ghostly traditions of this place , or the crucifix itself , I do not know , but I am not feeling nearly as easy in my mind as usual . 
If this book should ever reach Mina before I do , let it bring my good-bye . 
Here comes the coach ! 
* * * * * _ 5 May . 
The Castle . 
_ -- The grey of the morning has passed , and the sun is high over the distant horizon , which seems jagged , whether with trees or hills I know not , for it is so far off that big things and little are mixed . 
I am not sleepy , and , as I am not to be called till I awake , naturally I write till sleep comes . 
There are many odd things to put down , and , lest who reads them may fancy that I dined too well before I left Bistritz , let me put down my dinner exactly . 
I dined on what they called ` robber steak ' -- bits of bacon , onion , and beef , seasoned with red pepper , and strung on sticks and roasted over the fire , in the simple style of the London cat 's meat ! 
The wine was Golden Mediasch , which produces a queer sting on the tongue , which is , however , not disagreeable . 
I had only a couple of glasses of this , and nothing else . 
When I got on the coach the driver had not taken his seat , and I saw him talking with the landlady . 
They were evidently talking of me , for every now and then they looked at me , and some of the people who were sitting on the bench outside the door -- which they call by a name meaning ` word-bearer ' -- came and listened , and then looked at me , most of them pityingly . 
I could hear a lot of words often repeated , queer words , for there were many nationalities in the crowd ; so I quietly got my polyglot dictionary from my bag and looked them out . 
I must say they were not cheering to me , for amongst them were ` Ordog ' -- Satan , ` pokol ' -- hell , ` stregoica ' -- witch , ` vrolok ' and ` vlkoslak ' -- both of which mean the same thing , one being Slovak and the other Servian for something that is either were-wolf or vampire . 
-LRB- _ Mem . 
_ , I must ask the Count about these superstitions -RRB- When we started , the crowd round the inn door , which had by this time swelled to a considerable size , all made the sign of the cross and pointed two fingers towards me . 
With some difficulty I got a fellow-passenger to tell me what they meant ; he would not answer at first , but on learning that I was English , he explained that it was a charm or guard against the evil eye . 
This was not very pleasant for me , just starting for an unknown place to meet an unknown man ; but every one seemed so kind-hearted , and so sorrowful , and so sympathetic that I could not but be touched . 
I shall never forget the last glimpse which I had of the inn-yard and its crowd of picturesque figures , all crossing themselves , as they stood round the wide archway , with its background of rich foliage of oleander and orange trees in green tubs clustered in the centre of the yard . 
Then our driver , whose wide linen drawers covered the whole front of the box-seat -- ` gotza ' they call them -- cracked his big whip over his four small horses , which ran abreast , and we set off on our journey . 
I soon lost sight and recollection of ghostly fears in the beauty of the scene as we drove along , although had I known the language , or rather languages , which my fellow-passengers were speaking , I might not have been able to throw them off so easily . 
Before us lay a green sloping land full of forests and woods , with here and there steep hills , crowned with clumps of trees or with farmhouses , the blank gable end to the road . 
There was everywhere a bewildering mass of fruit blossom -- apple , plum , pear , cherry ; and as we drove by I could see the green grass under the trees spangled with the fallen petals . 
In and out amongst these green hills of what they call here the ` Mittel Land ' ran the road , losing itself as it swept round the grassy curve , or was shut out by the straggling ends of pine woods , which here and there ran down the hillsides like tongues of flame . 
The road was rugged , but still we seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste . 
I could not understand then what the haste meant , but the driver was evidently bent on losing no time in reaching Borgo Prund . 
I was told that this road is in summertime excellent , but that it had not yet been put in order after the winter snows . 
In this respect it is different from the general run of roads in the Carpathians , for it is an old tradition that they are not to be kept in too good order . 
Of old the Hospadars would not repair them , lest the Turk should think that they were preparing to bring in foreign troops , and so hasten the war which was always really at loading point . 
Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose mighty slopes of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Carpathians themselves . 
Right and left of us they towered , with the afternoon sun falling full upon them and bringing out all the glorious colours of this beautiful range , deep blue and purple in the shadows of the peaks , green and brown where grass and rock mingled , and an endless perspective of jagged rock and pointed crags , till these were themselves lost in the distance , where the snowy peaks rose grandly . 
Here and there seemed mighty rifts in the mountains , through which , as the sun began to sink , we saw now and again the white gleam of falling water . 
One of my companions touched my arm as we swept round the base of a hill and opened up the lofty , snow-covered peak of a mountain , which seemed , as we wound on our serpentine way , to be right before us : -- ` Look ! 
Isten szek ! ' 
-- ` God 's seat ! ' 
-- and he crossed himself reverently . 
As we wound on our endless way , and the sun sank lower and lower behind us , the shadows of the evening began to creep round us . 
This was emphasised by the fact that the snowy mountain-top still held the sunset , and seemed to glow out with a delicate cool pink . 
Here and there we passed Cszeks and Slovaks , all in picturesque attire , but I noticed that goitre was painfully prevalent . 
By the roadside were many crosses , and as we swept by , my companions all crossed themselves . 
Here and there was a peasant man or woman kneeling before a shrine , who did not even turn round as we approached , but seemed in the self-surrender of devotion to have neither eyes nor ears for the outer world . 
There were many things new to me : for instance , hay-ricks in the trees , and here and there very beautiful masses of weeping birch , their white stems shining like silver through the delicate green of the leaves . 
Now and again we passed a leiter-wagon -- the ordinary peasant 's cart -- with its long , snake-like vertebra , calculated to suit the inequalities of the road . 
On this were sure to be seated quite a group of home-coming peasants , the Cszeks with their white , and the Slovaks with their coloured , sheepskins , the latter carrying lance-fashion their long staves , with axe at end . 
As the evening fell it began to get very cold , and the growing twilight seemed to merge into one dark mistiness the gloom of the trees , oak , beech , and pine , though in the valleys which ran deep between the spurs of the hills , as we ascended through the Pass , the dark firs stood out here and there against the background of late-lying snow . 
Sometimes , as the road was cut through the pine woods that seemed in the darkness to be closing down upon us , great masses of greyness , which here and there bestrewed the trees , produced a peculiarly weird and solemn effect , which carried on the thoughts and grim fancies engendered earlier in the evening , when the falling sunset threw into strange relief the ghost-like clouds which amongst the Carpathians seem to wind ceaselessly through the valleys . 
Sometimes the hills were so steep that , despite our driver 's haste , the horses could only go slowly . 
I wished to get down and walk up them , as we do at home , but the driver would not hear of it . 
` No , no , ' he said ; ` you must not walk here ; the dogs are too fierce ' ; and then he added , with what he evidently meant for grim pleasantry -- for he looked round to catch the approving smile of the rest -- ` and you may have enough of such matters before you go to sleep . ' 
The only stop he would make was a moment 's pause to light his lamps . 
When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement amongst the passengers , and they kept speaking to him , one after the other , as though urging him to further speed . 
He lashed the horses unmercifully with his long whip , and with wild cries of encouragement urged them on to further exertions . 
Then through the darkness I could see a sort of patch of grey light ahead of us , as though there were a cleft in the hills . 
The excitement of the passengers grew greater ; the crazy coach rocked on its great leather springs , and swayed like a boat tossed on a stormy sea . 
I had to hold on . 
The road grew more level , and we appeared to fly along . 
Then the mountains seemed to come nearer to us on each side and to frown down upon us ; we were entering on the Borgo Pass . 
One by one several of the passengers offered me gifts , which they pressed upon me with an earnestness which would take no denial ; these were certainly of an odd and varied kind , but each was given in simple good faith , with a kindly word , and a blessing , and that strange mixture of fear-meaning movements which I had seen outside the hotel at Bistritz -- the sign of the cross and the guard against the evil eye . 
Then , as we flew along , the driver leaned forward , and on each side the passengers , craning over the edge of the coach , peered eagerly into the darkness . 
It was evident that something very exciting was either happening or expected , but though I asked each passenger , no one would give me the slightest explanation . 
This state of excitement kept on for some little time ; and at last we saw before us the Pass opening out on the eastern side . 
There were dark , rolling clouds overhead , and in the air the heavy , oppressive sense of thunder . 
It seemed as though the mountain range had separated two atmospheres , and that now we had got into the thunderous one . 
I was now myself looking out for the conveyance which was to take me to the Count . 
Each moment I expected to see the glare of lamps through the blackness ; but all was dark . 
The only light was the flickering rays of our own lamps , in which the steam from our hard-driven horses rose in a white cloud . 
We could see now the sandy road lying white before us , but there was on it no sign of a vehicle . 
The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness , which seemed to mock my own disappointment . 
I was already thinking what I had best do , when the driver , looking at his watch , said to the others something which I could hardly hear , it was spoken so quietly and in so low a tone ; I thought it was ` An hour less than the time . ' 
Then turning to me , he said in German worse than my own : -- ` There is no carriage here . 
The Herr is not expected after all . 
He will now come on to Bukovina , and return to-morrow or the next day ; better the next day . ' 
Whilst he was speaking the horses began to neigh and snort and plunge wildly , so that the driver had to hold them up . 
Then , amongst a chorus of screams from the peasants and a universal crossing of themselves , a calèche , with four horses , drove up behind us , overtook us , and drew up beside the coach . 
I could see from the flash of our lamps , as the rays fell on them , that the horses were coal-black and splendid animals . 
They were driven by a tall man , with a long brown beard and a great black hat , which seemed to hide his face from us . 
I could only see the gleam of a pair of very bright eyes , which seemed red in the lamplight , as he turned to us . 
He said to the driver : -- ` You are early to-night , my friend . ' 
The man stammered in reply : -- ` The English Herr was in a hurry , ' to which the stranger replied : -- ` That is why , I suppose , you wished him to go on to Bukovina . 
You can not deceive me , my friend ; I know too much , and my horses are swift . ' 
As he spoke he smiled , and the lamplight fell on a hard-looking mouth , with very red lips and sharp-looking teeth , as white as ivory . 
One of my companions whispered to another the line from Burger 's ` Lenore ' : -- ` Denn die Todten reiten schnell ' -- -LRB- ` For the dead travel fast . ' -RRB- 
The strange driver evidently heard the words , for he looked up with a gleaming smile . 
The passenger turned his face away , at the same time putting out his two fingers and crossing himself . 
` Give me the Herr 's luggage , ' said the driver ; and with exceeding alacrity my bags were handed out and put in the calèche . 
Then I descended from the side of the coach , as the calèche was close alongside , the driver helping me with a hand which caught my arm in a grip of steel ; his strength must have been prodigious . 
Without a word he shook his reins , the horses turned , and we swept into the darkness of the Pass . 
As I looked back I saw the steam from the horses of the coach by the light of the lamps , and projected against it the figures of my late companions crossing themselves . 
Then the driver cracked his whip and called to his horses , and off they swept on their way to Bukovina . 
As they sank into the darkness I felt a strange chill , and a lonely feeling came over me ; but a cloak was thrown over my shoulders , and a rug across my knees , and the driver said in excellent German : -- ` The night is chill , mein Herr , and my master the Count bade me take all care of you . 
There is a flask of slivovitz -LRB- the plum brandy of the country -RRB- underneath the seat , if you should require it . ' 
I did not take any , but it was a comfort to know it was there all the same . 
I felt a little strangely , and not a little frightened . 
I think had there been any alternative I should have taken it , instead of prosecuting that unknown night journey . 
The carriage went at a hard pace straight along , then we made a complete turn and went along another straight road . 
It seemed to me that we were simply going over and over the same ground again ; and so I took note of some salient point , and found that this was so . 
I would have liked to have asked the driver what this all meant , but I really feared to do so , for I thought that , placed as I was , any protest would have had no effect in case there had been an intention to delay . 
By-and-by , however , as I was curious to know how time was passing , I struck a match , and by its flame looked at my watch ; it was within a few minutes of midnight . 
This gave me a sort of shock , for I suppose the general superstition about midnight was increased by my recent experiences . 
I waited with a sick feeling of suspense . 
Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far down the road -- a long , agonised wailing , as if from fear . 
The sound was taken up by another dog , and then another and another , till , borne on the wind which now sighed softly through the Pass , a wild howling began , which seemed to come from all over the country , as far as the imagination could grasp it through the gloom of the night . 
At the first howl the horses began to strain and rear , but the driver spoke to them soothingly , and they quieted down , but shivered and sweated as though after a runaway from sudden fright . 
Then , far off in the distance , from the mountains on each side of us began a louder and a sharper howling -- that of wolves -- which affected both the horses and myself in the same way -- for I was minded to jump from the calèche and run , whilst they reared again and plunged madly , so that the driver had to use all his great strength to keep them from bolting . 
In a few minutes , however , my own ears got accustomed to the sound , and the horses so far became quiet that the driver was able to descend and to stand before them . 
He petted and soothed them , and whispered something in their ears , as I have heard of horse-tamers doing , and with extraordinary effect , for under his caresses they became quite manageable again , though they still trembled . 
The driver again took his seat , and shaking his reins , started off at a great pace . 
This time , after going to the far side of the Pass , he suddenly turned down a narrow roadway which ran sharply to the right . 
Soon we were hemmed in with trees , which in places arched right over the roadway till we passed as through a tunnel ; and again great frowning rocks guarded us boldly on either side . 
Though we were in shelter , we could hear the rising wind , for it moaned and whistled through the rocks , and the branches of the trees crashed together as we swept along . 
It grew colder and colder still , and fine , powdery snow began to fall , so that soon we and all around us were covered with a white blanket . 
The keen wind still carried the howling of the dogs , though this grew fainter as we went on our way . 
The baying of the wolves sounded nearer and nearer , as though they were closing round on us from every side . 
I grew dreadfully afraid , and the horses shared my fear . 
The driver , however , was not in the least disturbed ; he kept turning his head to left and right , but I could not see anything through the darkness . 
Suddenly , away on our left , I saw a faint flickering blue flame . 
The driver saw it at the same moment ; he at once checked the horses , and , jumping to the ground , disappeared into the darkness . 
I did not know what to do , the less as the howling of the wolves grew closer ; but while I wondered the driver suddenly appeared again , and without a word took his seat , and we resumed our journey . 
I think I must have fallen asleep and kept dreaming of the incident , for it seemed to be repeated endlessly , and now looking back , it is like a sort of awful nightmare . 
Once the flame appeared so near the road , that even in the darkness around us I could watch the driver 's motions . 
He went rapidly to where the blue flame arose -- it must have been very faint , for it did not seem to illumine the place around it at all -- and gathering a few stones , formed them into some device . 
Once there appeared a strange optical effect : when he stood between me and the flame he did not obstruct it , for I could see its ghostly flicker all the same . 
This startled me , but as the effect was only momentary , I took it that my eyes deceived me straining through the darkness . 
Then for a time there were no blue flames , and we sped onwards through the gloom , with the howling of the wolves around us , as though they were following in a moving circle . 
At last there came a time when the driver went further afield than he had yet gone , and during his absence , the horses began to tremble worse than ever and to snort and scream with fright . 
I could not see any cause for it , for the howling of the wolves had ceased altogether ; but just then the moon , sailing through the black clouds , appeared behind the jagged crest of a beetling , pine-clad rock , and by its light I saw around us a ring of wolves , with white teeth and lolling red tongues , with long , sinewy limbs and shaggy hair . 
They were a hundred times more terrible in the grim silence which held them than even when they howled . 
For myself , I felt a sort of paralysis of fear . 
It is only when a man feels himself face to face with such horrors that he can understand their true import . 
All at once the wolves began to howl as though the moonlight had had some peculiar effect on them . 
The horses jumped about and reared , and looked helplessly round with eyes that rolled in a way painful to see ; but the living ring of terror encompassed them on every side ; and they had perforce to remain within it . 
I called to the coachman to come , for it seemed to me that our only chance was to try to break out through the ring and to aid his approach . 
I shouted and beat the side of the calèche , hoping by the noise to scare the wolves from that side , so as to give him a chance of reaching the trap . 
How he came there , I know not , but I heard his voice raised in a tone of imperious command , and looking towards the sound , saw him stand in the roadway . 
As he swept his long arms , as though brushing aside some impalpable obstacle , the wolves fell back and back further still . 
Just then a heavy cloud passed across the face of the moon , so that we were again in darkness . 
When I could see again the driver was climbing into the calèche , and the wolves had disappeared . 
This was all so strange and uncanny that a dreadful fear came upon me , and I was afraid to speak or move . 
The time seemed interminable as we swept on our way , now in almost complete darkness , for the rolling clouds obscured the moon . 
We kept on ascending , with occasional periods of quick descent , but in the main always ascending . 
Suddenly , I became conscious of the fact that the driver was in the act of pulling up the horses in the courtyard of a vast ruined castle , from whose tall black windows came no ray of light , and whose broken battlements showed a jagged line against the moonlit sky . 
