YOU do n't know about me without you have read a book by the name of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer ; but that ai n't no matter . 
That book was made by Mr. Mark Twain , and he told the truth , mainly . 
There was things which he stretched , but mainly he told the truth . 
That is nothing . 
I never seen anybody but lied one time or another , without it was Aunt Polly , or the widow , or maybe Mary . 
Aunt Polly -- Tom 's Aunt Polly , she is -- and Mary , and the Widow Douglas is all told about in that book , which is mostly a true book , with some stretchers , as I said before . 
Now the way that the book winds up is this : Tom and me found the money that the robbers hid in the cave , and it made us rich . 
We got six thousand dollars apiece -- all gold . 
It was an awful sight of money when it was piled up . 
Well , Judge Thatcher he took it and put it out at interest , and it fetched us a dollar a day apiece all the year round -- more than a body could tell what to do with . 
The Widow Douglas she took me for her son , and allowed she would sivilize me ; but it was rough living in the house all the time , considering how dismal regular and decent the widow was in all her ways ; and so when I could n't stand it no longer I lit out . 
I got into my old rags and my sugar-hogshead again , and was free and satisfied . 
But Tom Sawyer he hunted me up and said he was going to start a band of robbers , and I might join if I would go back to the widow and be respectable . 
So I went back . 
The widow she cried over me , and called me a poor lost lamb , and she called me a lot of other names , too , but she never meant no harm by it . 
She put me in them new clothes again , and I could n't do nothing but sweat and sweat , and feel all cramped up . 
Well , then , the old thing commenced again . 
The widow rung a bell for supper , and you had to come to time . 
When you got to the table you could n't go right to eating , but you had to wait for the widow to tuck down her head and grumble a little over the victuals , though there war n't really anything the matter with them , -- that is , nothing only everything was cooked by itself . 
In a barrel of odds and ends it is different ; things get mixed up , and the juice kind of swaps around , and the things go better . 
After supper she got out her book and learned me about Moses and the Bulrushers , and I was in a sweat to find out all about him ; but by and by she let it out that Moses had been dead a considerable long time ; so then I did n't care no more about him , because I do n't take no stock in dead people . 
Pretty soon I wanted to smoke , and asked the widow to let me . 
But she would n't . 
She said it was a mean practice and was n't clean , and I must try to not do it any more . 
That is just the way with some people . 
They get down on a thing when they do n't know nothing about it . 
Here she was a-bothering about Moses , which was no kin to her , and no use to anybody , being gone , you see , yet finding a power of fault with me for doing a thing that had some good in it . 
And she took snuff , too ; of course that was all right , because she done it herself . 
Her sister , Miss Watson , a tolerable slim old maid , with goggles on , had just come to live with her , and took a set at me now with a spelling-book . 
She worked me middling hard for about an hour , and then the widow made her ease up . 
I could n't stood it much longer . 
Then for an hour it was deadly dull , and I was fidgety . 
Miss Watson would say , `` Do n't put your feet up there , Huckleberry ; '' and `` Do n't scrunch up like that , Huckleberry -- set up straight ; '' and pretty soon she would say , `` Do n't gap and stretch like that , Huckleberry -- why do n't you try to behave ? '' 
Then she told me all about the bad place , and I said I wished I was there . 
She got mad then , but I did n't mean no harm . 
All I wanted was to go somewheres ; all I wanted was a change , I war n't particular . 
She said it was wicked to say what I said ; said she would n't say it for the whole world ; she was going to live so as to go to the good place . 
Well , I could n't see no advantage in going where she was going , so I made up my mind I would n't try for it . 
But I never said so , because it would only make trouble , and would n't do no good . 
Now she had got a start , and she went on and told me all about the good place . 
She said all a body would have to do there was to go around all day long with a harp and sing , forever and ever . 
So I did n't think much of it . 
But I never said so . 
I asked her if she reckoned Tom Sawyer would go there , and she said not by a considerable sight . 
I was glad about that , because I wanted him and me to be together . 
Miss Watson she kept pecking at me , and it got tiresome and lonesome . 
By and by they fetched the niggers in and had prayers , and then everybody was off to bed . 
I went up to my room with a piece of candle , and put it on the table . 
Then I set down in a chair by the window and tried to think of something cheerful , but it war n't no use . 
I felt so lonesome I most wished I was dead . 
The stars were shining , and the leaves rustled in the woods ever so mournful ; and I heard an owl , away off , who-whooing about somebody that was dead , and a whippowill and a dog crying about somebody that was going to die ; and the wind was trying to whisper something to me , and I could n't make out what it was , and so it made the cold shivers run over me . 
Then away out in the woods I heard that kind of a sound that a ghost makes when it wants to tell about something that 's on its mind and ca n't make itself understood , and so ca n't rest easy in its grave , and has to go about that way every night grieving . 
I got so down-hearted and scared I did wish I had some company . 
Pretty soon a spider went crawling up my shoulder , and I flipped it off and it lit in the candle ; and before I could budge it was all shriveled up . 
I did n't need anybody to tell me that that was an awful bad sign and would fetch me some bad luck , so I was scared and most shook the clothes off of me . 
I got up and turned around in my tracks three times and crossed my breast every time ; and then I tied up a little lock of my hair with a thread to keep witches away . 
But I had n't no confidence . 
You do that when you 've lost a horseshoe that you 've found , instead of nailing it up over the door , but I had n't ever heard anybody say it was any way to keep off bad luck when you 'd killed a spider . 
I set down again , a-shaking all over , and got out my pipe for a smoke ; for the house was all as still as death now , and so the widow would n't know . 
Well , after a long time I heard the clock away off in the town go boom -- boom -- boom -- twelve licks ; and all still again -- stiller than ever . 
Pretty soon I heard a twig snap down in the dark amongst the trees -- something was a stirring . 
I set still and listened . 
Directly I could just barely hear a `` me-yow ! 
me-yow ! '' 
down there . 
That was good ! 
Says I , `` me-yow ! 
me-yow ! '' 
as soft as I could , and then I put out the light and scrambled out of the window on to the shed . 
Then I slipped down to the ground and crawled in among the trees , and , sure enough , there was Tom Sawyer waiting for me . 
CHAPTER II . 
WE went tiptoeing along a path amongst the trees back towards the end of the widow 's garden , stooping down so as the branches would n't scrape our heads . 
When we was passing by the kitchen I fell over a root and made a noise . 
We scrouched down and laid still . 
Miss Watson 's big nigger , named Jim , was setting in the kitchen door ; we could see him pretty clear , because there was a light behind him . 
He got up and stretched his neck out about a minute , listening . 
Then he says : `` Who dah ? '' 
He listened some more ; then he come tiptoeing down and stood right between us ; we could a touched him , nearly . 
Well , likely it was minutes and minutes that there war n't a sound , and we all there so close together . 
There was a place on my ankle that got to itching , but I das n't scratch it ; and then my ear begun to itch ; and next my back , right between my shoulders . 
Seemed like I 'd die if I could n't scratch . 
Well , I 've noticed that thing plenty times since . 
If you are with the quality , or at a funeral , or trying to go to sleep when you ai n't sleepy -- if you are anywheres where it wo n't do for you to scratch , why you will itch all over in upwards of a thousand places . 
Pretty soon Jim says : `` Say , who is you ? 
Whar is you ? 
Dog my cats ef I didn ' hear sumf ’n . 
Well , I know what I 's gwyne to do : I 's gwyne to set down here and listen tell I hears it agin . '' 
So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom . 
He leaned his back up against a tree , and stretched his legs out till one of them most touched one of mine . 
My nose begun to itch . 
It itched till the tears come into my eyes . 
But I das n't scratch . 
Then it begun to itch on the inside . 
Next I got to itching underneath . 
I did n't know how I was going to set still . 
This miserableness went on as much as six or seven minutes ; but it seemed a sight longer than that . 
I was itching in eleven different places now . 
I reckoned I could n't stand it more ’n a minute longer , but I set my teeth hard and got ready to try . 
Just then Jim begun to breathe heavy ; next he begun to snore -- and then I was pretty soon comfortable again . 
Tom he made a sign to me -- kind of a little noise with his mouth -- and we went creeping away on our hands and knees . 
When we was ten foot off Tom whispered to me , and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun . 
But I said no ; he might wake and make a disturbance , and then they 'd find out I war n't in . 
Then Tom said he had n't got candles enough , and he would slip in the kitchen and get some more . 
I did n't want him to try . 
I said Jim might wake up and come . 
But Tom wanted to resk it ; so we slid in there and got three candles , and Tom laid five cents on the table for pay . 
Then we got out , and I was in a sweat to get away ; but nothing would do Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was , on his hands and knees , and play something on him . 
I waited , and it seemed a good while , everything was so still and lonesome . 
As soon as Tom was back we cut along the path , around the garden fence , and by and by fetched up on the steep top of the hill the other side of the house . 
Tom said he slipped Jim 's hat off of his head and hung it on a limb right over him , and Jim stirred a little , but he did n't wake . 
Afterwards Jim said the witches be witched him and put him in a trance , and rode him all over the State , and then set him under the trees again , and hung his hat on a limb to show who done it . 
And next time Jim told it he said they rode him down to New Orleans ; and , after that , every time he told it he spread it more and more , till by and by he said they rode him all over the world , and tired him most to death , and his back was all over saddle-boils . 
Jim was monstrous proud about it , and he got so he would n't hardly notice the other niggers . 
Niggers would come miles to hear Jim tell about it , and he was more looked up to than any nigger in that country . 
Strange niggers would stand with their mouths open and look him all over , same as if he was a wonder . 
Niggers is always talking about witches in the dark by the kitchen fire ; but whenever one was talking and letting on to know all about such things , Jim would happen in and say , `` Hm ! 
What you know ` bout witches ? '' 
and that nigger was corked up and had to take a back seat . 
Jim always kept that five-center piece round his neck with a string , and said it was a charm the devil give to him with his own hands , and told him he could cure anybody with it and fetch witches whenever he wanted to just by saying something to it ; but he never told what it was he said to it . 
Niggers would come from all around there and give Jim anything they had , just for a sight of that five-center piece ; but they would n't touch it , because the devil had had his hands on it . 
Jim was most ruined for a servant , because he got stuck up on account of having seen the devil and been rode by witches . 
Well , when Tom and me got to the edge of the hilltop we looked away down into the village and could see three or four lights twinkling , where there was sick folks , maybe ; and the stars over us was sparkling ever so fine ; and down by the village was the river , a whole mile broad , and awful still and grand . 
We went down the hill and found Jo Harper and Ben Rogers , and two or three more of the boys , hid in the old tanyard . 
So we unhitched a skiff and pulled down the river two mile and a half , to the big scar on the hillside , and went ashore . 
We went to a clump of bushes , and Tom made everybody swear to keep the secret , and then showed them a hole in the hill , right in the thickest part of the bushes . 
Then we lit the candles , and crawled in on our hands and knees . 
We went about two hundred yards , and then the cave opened up . 
Tom poked about amongst the passages , and pretty soon ducked under a wall where you would n't a noticed that there was a hole . 
We went along a narrow place and got into a kind of room , all damp and sweaty and cold , and there we stopped . 
Tom says : `` Now , we 'll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer 's Gang . 
Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath , and write his name in blood . '' 
Everybody was willing . 
So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had wrote the oath on , and read it . 
It swore every boy to stick to the band , and never tell any of the secrets ; and if anybody done anything to any boy in the band , whichever boy was ordered to kill that person and his family must do it , and he must n't eat and he must n't sleep till he had killed them and hacked a cross in their breasts , which was the sign of the band . 
And nobody that did n't belong to the band could use that mark , and if he did he must be sued ; and if he done it again he must be killed . 
And if anybody that belonged to the band told the secrets , he must have his throat cut , and then have his carcass burnt up and the ashes scattered all around , and his name blotted off of the list with blood and never mentioned again by the gang , but have a curse put on it and be forgot forever . 
Everybody said it was a real beautiful oath , and asked Tom if he got it out of his own head . 
He said , some of it , but the rest was out of pirate-books and robber-books , and every gang that was high-toned had it . 
Some thought it would be good to kill the _ families _ of boys that told the secrets . 
Tom said it was a good idea , so he took a pencil and wrote it in . 
Then Ben Rogers says : `` Here 's Huck Finn , he hai n't got no family ; what you going to do ` bout him ? '' 
`` Well , hai n't he got a father ? '' 
says Tom Sawyer . 
`` Yes , he 's got a father , but you ca n't never find him these days . 
He used to lay drunk with the hogs in the tanyard , but he hai n't been seen in these parts for a year or more . '' 
They talked it over , and they was going to rule me out , because they said every boy must have a family or somebody to kill , or else it would n't be fair and square for the others . 
Well , nobody could think of anything to do -- everybody was stumped , and set still . 
I was most ready to cry ; but all at once I thought of a way , and so I offered them Miss Watson -- they could kill her . 
Everybody said : `` Oh , she 'll do . 
That 's all right . 
Huck can come in . '' 
Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with , and I made my mark on the paper . 
`` Now , '' says Ben Rogers , `` what 's the line of business of this Gang ? '' 
`` Nothing only robbery and murder , '' Tom said . 
`` But who are we going to rob ? 
-- houses , or cattle , or -- '' `` Stuff ! 
stealing cattle and such things ai n't robbery ; it 's burglary , '' says Tom Sawyer . 
`` We ai n't burglars . 
That ai n't no sort of style . 
We are highwaymen . 
We stop stages and carriages on the road , with masks on , and kill the people and take their watches and money . '' 
`` Must we always kill the people ? '' 
`` Oh , certainly . 
It 's best . 
Some authorities think different , but mostly it 's considered best to kill them -- except some that you bring to the cave here , and keep them till they 're ransomed . '' 
`` Ransomed ? 
What 's that ? '' 
`` I do n't know . 
But that 's what they do . 
I 've seen it in books ; and so of course that 's what we 've got to do . '' 
`` But how can we do it if we do n't know what it is ? '' 
`` Why , blame it all , we 've _ got _ to do it . 
Do n't I tell you it 's in the books ? 
Do you want to go to doing different from what 's in the books , and get things all muddled up ? '' 
`` Oh , that 's all very fine to _ say _ , Tom Sawyer , but how in the nation are these fellows going to be ransomed if we do n't know how to do it to them ? 
-- that 's the thing I want to get at . 
Now , what do you reckon it is ? '' 
`` Well , I do n't know . 
But per ' aps if we keep them till they 're ransomed , it means that we keep them till they 're dead . '' 
`` Now , that 's something _ like _ . 
That 'll answer . 
Why could n't you said that before ? 
We 'll keep them till they 're ransomed to death ; and a bothersome lot they 'll be , too -- eating up everything , and always trying to get loose . '' 
`` How you talk , Ben Rogers . 
How can they get loose when there 's a guard over them , ready to shoot them down if they move a peg ? '' 
`` A guard ! 
Well , that _ is _ good . 
So somebody 's got to set up all night and never get any sleep , just so as to watch them . 
I think that 's foolishness . 
Why ca n't a body take a club and ransom them as soon as they get here ? '' 
`` Because it ai n't in the books so -- that 's why . 
Now , Ben Rogers , do you want to do things regular , or do n't you ? 
-- that 's the idea . 
Do n't you reckon that the people that made the books knows what 's the correct thing to do ? 
Do you reckon _ you _ can learn ` em anything ? 
Not by a good deal . 
No , sir , we 'll just go on and ransom them in the regular way . '' 
`` All right . 
I do n't mind ; but I say it 's a fool way , anyhow . 
Say , do we kill the women , too ? '' 
`` Well , Ben Rogers , if I was as ignorant as you I would n't let on . 
Kill the women ? 
No ; nobody ever saw anything in the books like that . 
You fetch them to the cave , and you 're always as polite as pie to them ; and by and by they fall in love with you , and never want to go home any more . '' 
`` Well , if that 's the way I 'm agreed , but I do n't take no stock in it . 
Mighty soon we 'll have the cave so cluttered up with women , and fellows waiting to be ransomed , that there wo n't be no place for the robbers . 
But go ahead , I ai n't got nothing to say . '' 
Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now , and when they waked him up he was scared , and cried , and said he wanted to go home to his ma , and did n't want to be a robber any more . 
So they all made fun of him , and called him cry-baby , and that made him mad , and he said he would go straight and tell all the secrets . 
But Tom give him five cents to keep quiet , and said we would all go home and meet next week , and rob somebody and kill some people . 
Ben Rogers said he could n't get out much , only Sundays , and so he wanted to begin next Sunday ; but all the boys said it would be wicked to do it on Sunday , and that settled the thing . 
They agreed to get together and fix a day as soon as they could , and then we elected Tom Sawyer first captain and Jo Harper second captain of the Gang , and so started home . 
I clumb up the shed and crept into my window just before day was breaking . 
My new clothes was all greased up and clayey , and I was dog-tired . 
