A yellow dressinggown , ungirdled , was sustained gently behind him on the mild morning air . 
He held the bowl aloft and intoned : -- Introibo ad altare Dei . 
Halted , he peered down the dark winding stairs and called out coarsely : -- Come up , Kinch ! 
Come up , you fearful jesuit ! 
Solemnly he came forward and mounted the round gunrest . 
He faced about and blessed gravely thrice the tower , the surrounding land and the awaking mountains . 
Then , catching sight of Stephen Dedalus , he bent towards him and made rapid crosses in the air , gurgling in his throat and shaking his head . 
Stephen Dedalus , displeased and sleepy , leaned his arms on the top of the staircase and looked coldly at the shaking gurgling face that blessed him , equine in its length , and at the light untonsured hair , grained and hued like pale oak . 
Buck Mulligan peeped an instant under the mirror and then covered the bowl smartly . 
-- Back to barracks ! 
he said sternly . 
He added in a preacher 's tone : -- For this , O dearly beloved , is the genuine Christine : body and soul and blood and ouns . 
Slow music , please . 
Shut your eyes , gents . 
One moment . 
A little trouble about those white corpuscles . 
Silence , all . 
He peered sideways up and gave a long slow whistle of call , then paused awhile in rapt attention , his even white teeth glistening here and there with gold points . 
Chrysostomos . 
Two strong shrill whistles answered through the calm . 
-- Thanks , old chap , he cried briskly . 
That will do nicely . 
Switch off the current , will you ? 
He skipped off the gunrest and looked gravely at his watcher , gathering about his legs the loose folds of his gown . 
The plump shadowed face and sullen oval jowl recalled a prelate , patron of arts in the middle ages . 
A pleasant smile broke quietly over his lips . 
-- The mockery of it ! 
he said gaily . 
Your absurd name , an ancient Greek ! 
He pointed his finger in friendly jest and went over to the parapet , laughing to himself . 
Stephen Dedalus stepped up , followed him wearily halfway and sat down on the edge of the gunrest , watching him still as he propped his mirror on the parapet , dipped the brush in the bowl and lathered cheeks and neck . 
Buck Mulligan 's gay voice went on . 
-- My name is absurd too : Malachi Mulligan , two dactyls . 
But it has a Hellenic ring , has n't it ? 
Tripping and sunny like the buck himself . 
We must go to Athens . 
Will you come if I can get the aunt to fork out twenty quid ? 
He laid the brush aside and , laughing with delight , cried : -- Will he come ? 
The jejune jesuit ! 
Ceasing , he began to shave with care . 
-- Tell me , Mulligan , Stephen said quietly . 
-- Yes , my love ? 
-- How long is Haines going to stay in this tower ? 
Buck Mulligan showed a shaven cheek over his right shoulder . 
-- God , is n't he dreadful ? 
he said frankly . 
A ponderous Saxon . 
He thinks you 're not a gentleman . 
God , these bloody English ! 
Bursting with money and indigestion . 
Because he comes from Oxford . 
You know , Dedalus , you have the real Oxford manner . 
He ca n't make you out . 
O , my name for you is the best : Kinch , the knife-blade . 
He shaved warily over his chin . 
-- He was raving all night about a black panther , Stephen said . 
Where is his guncase ? 
-- A woful lunatic ! 
Mulligan said . 
Were you in a funk ? 
-- I was , Stephen said with energy and growing fear . 
Out here in the dark with a man I do n't know raving and moaning to himself about shooting a black panther . 
You saved men from drowning . 
I 'm not a hero , however . 
If he stays on here I am off . 
Buck Mulligan frowned at the lather on his razorblade . 
He hopped down from his perch and began to search his trouser pockets hastily . 
-- Scutter ! 
he cried thickly . 
He came over to the gunrest and , thrusting a hand into Stephen 's upper pocket , said : -- Lend us a loan of your noserag to wipe my razor . 
Stephen suffered him to pull out and hold up on show by its corner a dirty crumpled handkerchief . 
Buck Mulligan wiped the razorblade neatly . 
Then , gazing over the handkerchief , he said : -- The bard 's noserag ! 
A new art colour for our Irish poets : snotgreen . 
You can almost taste it , ca n't you ? 
He mounted to the parapet again and gazed out over Dublin bay , his fair oakpale hair stirring slightly . 
-- God ! 
he said quietly . 
Is n't the sea what Algy calls it : a great sweet mother ? 
The snotgreen sea . 
The scrotumtightening sea . 
Epi oinopa ponton . 
Ah , Dedalus , the Greeks ! 
I must teach you . 
You must read them in the original . 
Thalatta ! 
Thalatta ! 
She is our great sweet mother . 
Come and look . 
Stephen stood up and went over to the parapet . 
Leaning on it he looked down on the water and on the mailboat clearing the harbourmouth of Kingstown . 
-- Our mighty mother ! 
Buck Mulligan said . 
He turned abruptly his grey searching eyes from the sea to Stephen 's face . 
-- The aunt thinks you killed your mother , he said . 
That 's why she wo n't let me have anything to do with you . 
-- Someone killed her , Stephen said gloomily . 
-- You could have knelt down , damn it , Kinch , when your dying mother asked you , Buck Mulligan said . 
I 'm hyperborean as much as you . 
But to think of your mother begging you with her last breath to kneel down and pray for her . 
And you refused . 
There is something sinister in you ... He broke off and lathered again lightly his farther cheek . 
A tolerant smile curled his lips . 
-- But a lovely mummer ! 
he murmured to himself . 
Kinch , the loveliest mummer of them all ! 
He shaved evenly and with care , in silence , seriously . 
Stephen , an elbow rested on the jagged granite , leaned his palm against his brow and gazed at the fraying edge of his shiny black coat-sleeve . 
Pain , that was not yet the pain of love , fretted his heart . 
Silently , in a dream she had come to him after her death , her wasted body within its loose brown graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood , her breath , that had bent upon him , mute , reproachful , a faint odour of wetted ashes . 
Across the threadbare cuffedge he saw the sea hailed as a great sweet mother by the wellfed voice beside him . 
The ring of bay and skyline held a dull green mass of liquid . 
A bowl of white china had stood beside her deathbed holding the green sluggish bile which she had torn up from her rotting liver by fits of loud groaning vomiting . 
Buck Mulligan wiped again his razorblade . 
-- Ah , poor dogsbody ! 
he said in a kind voice . 
I must give you a shirt and a few noserags . 
How are the secondhand breeks ? 
-- They fit well enough , Stephen answered . 
Buck Mulligan attacked the hollow beneath his underlip . 
-- The mockery of it , he said contentedly . 
Secondleg they should be . 
God knows what poxy bowsy left them off . 
I have a lovely pair with a hair stripe , grey . 
You 'll look spiffing in them . 
I 'm not joking , Kinch . 
You look damn well when you 're dressed . 
-- Thanks , Stephen said . 
I ca n't wear them if they are grey . 
-- He ca n't wear them , Buck Mulligan told his face in the mirror . 
Etiquette is etiquette . 
He kills his mother but he ca n't wear grey trousers . 
He folded his razor neatly and with stroking palps of fingers felt the smooth skin . 
Stephen turned his gaze from the sea and to the plump face with its smokeblue mobile eyes . 
-- That fellow I was with in the Ship last night , said Buck Mulligan , says you have g. p. i. He 's up in Dottyville with Connolly Norman . 
General paralysis of the insane ! 
He swept the mirror a half circle in the air to flash the tidings abroad in sunlight now radiant on the sea . 
His curling shaven lips laughed and the edges of his white glittering teeth . 
Laughter seized all his strong wellknit trunk . 
-- Look at yourself , he said , you dreadful bard ! 
Stephen bent forward and peered at the mirror held out to him , cleft by a crooked crack . 
Hair on end . 
As he and others see me . 
Who chose this face for me ? 
This dogsbody to rid of vermin . 
It asks me too . 
-- I pinched it out of the skivvy 's room , Buck Mulligan said . 
It does her all right . 
The aunt always keeps plainlooking servants for Malachi . 
Lead him not into temptation . 
And her name is Ursula . 
Laughing again , he brought the mirror away from Stephen 's peering eyes . 
-- The rage of Caliban at not seeing his face in a mirror , he said . 
If Wilde were only alive to see you ! 
Drawing back and pointing , Stephen said with bitterness : -- It is a symbol of Irish art . 
The cracked lookingglass of a servant . 
Buck Mulligan suddenly linked his arm in Stephen 's and walked with him round the tower , his razor and mirror clacking in the pocket where he had thrust them . 
-- It 's not fair to tease you like that , Kinch , is it ? 
he said kindly . 
God knows you have more spirit than any of them . 
Parried again . 
He fears the lancet of my art as I fear that of his . 
The cold steel pen . 
-- Cracked lookingglass of a servant ! 
Tell that to the oxy chap downstairs and touch him for a guinea . 
He 's stinking with money and thinks you 're not a gentleman . 
His old fellow made his tin by selling jalap to Zulus or some bloody swindle or other . 
God , Kinch , if you and I could only work together we might do something for the island . 
Hellenise it . 
Cranly 's arm . 
His arm . 
-- And to think of your having to beg from these swine . 
I 'm the only one that knows what you are . 
Why do n't you trust me more ? 
What have you up your nose against me ? 
Is it Haines ? 
If he makes any noise here I 'll bring down Seymour and we 'll give him a ragging worse than they gave Clive Kempthorpe . 
Young shouts of moneyed voices in Clive Kempthorpe 's rooms . 
Palefaces : they hold their ribs with laughter , one clasping another . 
O , I shall expire ! 
Break the news to her gently , Aubrey ! 
I shall die ! 
With slit ribbons of his shirt whipping the air he hops and hobbles round the table , with trousers down at heels , chased by Ades of Magdalen with the tailor 's shears . 
A scared calf 's face gilded with marmalade . 
I do n't want to be debagged ! 
Do n't you play the giddy ox with me ! 
Shouts from the open window startling evening in the quadrangle . 
A deaf gardener , aproned , masked with Matthew Arnold 's face , pushes his mower on the sombre lawn watching narrowly the dancing motes of grasshalms . 
To ourselves ... new paganism ... omphalos . 
-- Let him stay , Stephen said . 
There 's nothing wrong with him except at night . 
-- Then what is it ? 
Buck Mulligan asked impatiently . 
Cough it up . 
I 'm quite frank with you . 
What have you against me now ? 
They halted , looking towards the blunt cape of Bray Head that lay on the water like the snout of a sleeping whale . 
Stephen freed his arm quietly . 
-- Do you wish me to tell you ? 
he asked . 
-- Yes , what is it ? 
Buck Mulligan answered . 
I do n't remember anything . 
He looked in Stephen 's face as he spoke . 
A light wind passed his brow , fanning softly his fair uncombed hair and stirring silver points of anxiety in his eyes . 
Stephen , depressed by his own voice , said : -- Do you remember the first day I went to your house after my mother 's death ? 
Buck Mulligan frowned quickly and said : -- What ? 
Where ? 
I ca n't remember anything . 
I remember only ideas and sensations . 
Why ? 
What happened in the name of God ? 
-- You were making tea , Stephen said , and went across the landing to get more hot water . 
Your mother and some visitor came out of the drawingroom . 
She asked you who was in your room . 
-- Yes ? 
Buck Mulligan said . 
What did I say ? 
I forget . 
-- You said , Stephen answered , O , it 's only Dedalus whose mother is beastly dead . 
A flush which made him seem younger and more engaging rose to Buck Mulligan 's cheek . 
-- Did I say that ? 
he asked . 
Well ? 
What harm is that ? 
He shook his constraint from him nervously . 
-- And what is death , he asked , your mother 's or yours or my own ? 
You saw only your mother die . 
I see them pop off every day in the Mater and Richmond and cut up into tripes in the dissectingroom . 
It 's a beastly thing and nothing else . 
It simply does n't matter . 
You would n't kneel down to pray for your mother on her deathbed when she asked you . 
Why ? 
Because you have the cursed jesuit strain in you , only it 's injected the wrong way . 
To me it 's all a mockery and beastly . 
Her cerebral lobes are not functioning . 
She calls the doctor sir Peter Teazle and picks buttercups off the quilt . 
Humour her till it 's over . 
You crossed her last wish in death and yet you sulk with me because I do n't whinge like some hired mute from Lalouette 's . 
Absurd ! 
I suppose I did say it . 
I did n't mean to offend the memory of your mother . 
He had spoken himself into boldness . 
Stephen , shielding the gaping wounds which the words had left in his heart , said very coldly : -- I am not thinking of the offence to my mother . 
-- Of what then ? 
Buck Mulligan asked . 
-- Of the offence to me , Stephen answered . 
Buck Mulligan swung round on his heel . 
-- O , an impossible person ! 
he exclaimed . 
He walked off quickly round the parapet . 
Stephen stood at his post , gazing over the calm sea towards the headland . 
Sea and headland now grew dim . 
Pulses were beating in his eyes , veiling their sight , and he felt the fever of his cheeks . 
A voice within the tower called loudly : -- Are you up there , Mulligan ? 
-- I 'm coming , Buck Mulligan answered . 
He turned towards Stephen and said : -- Look at the sea . 
What does it care about offences ? 
Chuck Loyola , Kinch , and come on down . 
The Sassenach wants his morning rashers . 
His head halted again for a moment at the top of the staircase , level with the roof : -- Do n't mope over it all day , he said . 
I 'm inconsequent . 
Give up the moody brooding . 
His head vanished but the drone of his descending voice boomed out of the stairhead : And no more turn aside and brood Upon love 's bitter mystery For Fergus rules the brazen cars . 
Woodshadows floated silently by through the morning peace from the stairhead seaward where he gazed . 
Inshore and farther out the mirror of water whitened , spurned by lightshod hurrying feet . 
White breast of the dim sea . 
The twining stresses , two by two . 
A hand plucking the harpstrings , merging their twining chords . 
Wavewhite wedded words shimmering on the dim tide . 
A cloud began to cover the sun slowly , wholly , shadowing the bay in deeper green . 
It lay beneath him , a bowl of bitter waters . 
Fergus ' song : I sang it alone in the house , holding down the long dark chords . 
Her door was open : she wanted to hear my music . 
Silent with awe and pity I went to her bedside . 
She was crying in her wretched bed . 
For those words , Stephen : love 's bitter mystery . 
Where now ? 
Her secrets : old featherfans , tasselled dancecards , powdered with musk , a gaud of amber beads in her locked drawer . 
A birdcage hung in the sunny window of her house when she was a girl . 
She heard old Royce sing in the pantomime of Turko the Terrible and laughed with others when he sang : I am the boy That can enjoy Invisibility . 
Phantasmal mirth , folded away : muskperfumed . 
And no more turn aside and brood . 
Folded away in the memory of nature with her toys . 
Memories beset his brooding brain . 
Her glass of water from the kitchen tap when she had approached the sacrament . 
A cored apple , filled with brown sugar , roasting for her at the hob on a dark autumn evening . 
Her shapely fingernails reddened by the blood of squashed lice from the children 's shirts . 
In a dream , silently , she had come to him , her wasted body within its loose graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood , her breath , bent over him with mute secret words , a faint odour of wetted ashes . 
Her glazing eyes , staring out of death , to shake and bend my soul . 
On me alone . 
The ghostcandle to light her agony . 
Ghostly light on the tortured face . 
Her hoarse loud breath rattling in horror , while all prayed on their knees . 
Her eyes on me to strike me down . 
Liliata rutilantium te confessorum turma circumdet : iubilantium te virginum chorus excipiat . 
Ghoul ! 
Chewer of corpses ! 
No , mother ! 
Let me be and let me live . 
-- Kinch ahoy ! 
Buck Mulligan 's voice sang from within the tower . 
