A black servant , who reposed on the box beside the fat coachman , uncurled his bandy legs as soon as the equipage drew up opposite Miss Pinkerton 's shining brass plate , and as he pulled the bell at least a score of young heads were seen peering out of the narrow windows of the stately old brick house . 
Nay , the acute observer might have recognized the little red nose of good-natured Miss Jemima Pinkerton herself , rising over some geranium pots in the window of that lady 's own drawing-room . 
` It is Mrs. Sedley 's coach , sister , ' said Miss Jemima . 
` Sambo , the black servant , has just rung the bell ; and the coachman has a new red waistcoat . ' 
` Have you completed all the necessary preparations incident to Miss Sedley 's departure , Miss Jemima ? ' 
asked Miss Pinkerton herself , that majestic lady ; the Semiramis of Hammersmith , the friend of Doctor Johnson , the correspondent of Mrs. Chapone herself . 
` The girls were up at four this morning , packing her trunks , sister , ' replied Miss Jemima ; ` we have made her a bow-pot . ' 
` Say a bouquet , sister Jemima , ` tis more genteel . ' 
` Well , a booky as big almost as a haystack ; I have put up two bottles of the gillyflower water for Mrs. Sedley , and the receipt for making it , in Amelia 's box . ' 
` And I trust , Miss Jemima , you have made a copy of Miss Sedley 's account . 
This is it , is it ? 
Very good -- ninety-three pounds , four shillings . 
Be kind enough to address it to John Sedley , Esquire , and to seal this billet which I have written to his lady . ' 
In Miss Jemima 's eyes an autograph letter of her sister , Miss Pinkerton , was an object of as deep veneration as would have been a letter from a sovereign . 
Only when her pupils quitted the establishment , or when they were about to be married , and once , when poor Miss Birch died of the scarlet fever , was Miss Pinkerton known to write personally to the parents of her pupils ; and it was Jemima 's opinion that if anything could console Mrs. Birch for her daughter 's loss , it would be that pious and eloquent composition in which Miss Pinkerton announced the event . 
In the present instance Miss Pinkerton 's ` billet ' was to the following effect : -- The Mall , Chiswick , June 15 , 18 MADAM , -- After her six years ' residence at the Mall , I have the honour and happiness of presenting Miss Amelia Sedley to her parents , as a young lady not unworthy to occupy a fitting position in their polished and refined circle . 
Those virtues which characterize the young English gentlewoman , those accomplishments which become her birth and station , will not be found wanting in the amiable Miss Sedley , whose INDUSTRY and OBEDIENCE have endeared her to her instructors , and whose delightful sweetness of temper has charmed her AGED and her YOUTHFUL companions . 
In music , in dancing , in orthography , in every variety of embroidery and needlework , she will be found to have realized her friends ' fondest wishes . 
In geography there is still much to be desired ; and a careful and undeviating use of the backboard , for four hours daily during the next three years , is recommended as necessary to the acquirement of that dignified DEPORTMENT AND CARRIAGE , so requisite for every young lady of FASHION . 
In the principles of religion and morality , Miss Sedley will be found worthy of an establishment which has been honoured by the presence of THE GREAT LEXICOGRAPHER , and the patronage of the admirable Mrs. Chapone . 
In leaving the Mall , Miss Amelia carries with her the hearts of her companions , and the affectionate regards of her mistress , who has the honour to subscribe herself , Madam , Your most obliged humble servant , BARBARA PINKERTON P.S. -- Miss Sharp accompanies Miss Sedley . 
It is particularly requested that Miss Sharp 's stay in Russell Square may not exceed ten days . 
The family of distinction with whom she is engaged , desire to avail themselves of her services as soon as possible . 
This letter completed , Miss Pinkerton proceeded to write her own name , and Miss Sedley 's , in the fly-leaf of a Johnson 's Dictionary -- the interesting work which she invariably presented to her scholars , on their departure from the Mall . 
On the cover was inserted a copy of ` Lines addressed to a young lady on quitting Miss Pinkerton 's school , at the Mall ; by the late revered Doctor Samuel Johnson . ' 
In fact , the Lexicographer 's name was always on the lips of this majestic woman , and a visit he had paid to her was the cause of her reputation and her fortune . 
Being commanded by her elder sister to get ` the Dictionary ' from the cupboard , Miss Jemima had extracted two copies of the book from the receptacle in question . 
When Miss Pinkerton had finished the inscription in the first , Jemima , with rather a dubious and timid air , handed her the second . 
` For whom is this , Miss Jemima ? ' 
said Miss Pinkerton , with awful coldness . 
` For Becky Sharp , ' answered Jemima , trembling very much , and blushing over her withered face and neck , as she turned her back on her sister . 
` For Becky Sharp : she 's going too . ' 
` MISS JEMIMA ! ' 
exclaimed Miss Pinkerton , in the largest capitals . 
` Are you in your senses ? 
Replace the Dixonary in the closet , and never venture to take such a liberty in future . ' 
` Well , sister , it 's only two-and-ninepence , and poor Becky will be miserable if she do n't get one . ' 
` Send Miss Sedley instantly to me , ' said Miss Pinkerton . 
And so venturing not to say another word , poor Jemima trotted off , exceedingly flurried and nervous . 
Miss Sedley 's papa was a merchant in London , and a man of some wealth ; whereas Miss Sharp was an articled pupil , for whom Miss Pinkerton had done , as she thought , quite enough , without conferring upon her at parting the high honour of the Dixonary . 
Although schoolmistresses ' letters are to be trusted no more nor less than churchyard epitaphs ; yet , as it sometimes happens that a person departs this life who is really deserving of all the praises the stone cutter carves over his bones ; who IS a good Christian , a good parent , child , wife , or husband ; who actually DOES leave a disconsolate family to mourn his loss ; so in academies of the male and female sex it occurs every now and then that the pupil is fully worthy of the praises bestowed by the disinterested instructor . 
Now , Miss Amelia Sedley was a young lady of this singular species ; and deserved not only all that Miss Pinkerton said in her praise , but had many charming qualities which that pompous old Minerva of a woman could not see , from the differences of rank and age between her pupil and herself . 
For she could not only sing like a lark , or a Mrs. Billington , and dance like Hillisberg or Parisot ; and embroider beautifully ; and spell as well as a Dixonary itself ; but she had such a kindly , smiling , tender , gentle , generous heart of her own , as won the love of everybody who came near her , from Minerva herself down to the poor girl in the scullery , and the one-eyed tart-woman 's daughter , who was permitted to vend her wares once a week to the young ladies in the Mall . 
She had twelve intimate and bosom friends out of the twenty-four young ladies . 
Even envious Miss Briggs never spoke ill of her ; high and mighty Miss Saltire -LRB- Lord Dexter 's granddaughter -RRB- allowed that her figure was genteel ; and as for Miss Swartz , the rich woolly-haired mulatto from St. Kitt 's , on the day Amelia went away , she was in such a passion of tears that they were obliged to send for Dr. Floss , and half tipsify her with salvolatile . 
Miss Pinkerton 's attachment was , as may be supposed from the high position and eminent virtues of that lady , calm and dignified ; but Miss Jemima had already whimpered several times at the idea of Amelia 's departure ; and , but for fear of her sister , would have gone off in downright hysterics , like the heiress -LRB- who paid double -RRB- of St. Kitt 's . 
Such luxury of grief , however , is only allowed to parlour-boarders . 
Honest Jemima had all the bills , and the washing , and the mending , and the puddings , and the plate and crockery , and the servants to superintend . 
But why speak about her ? 
It is probable that we shall not hear of her again from this moment to the end of time , and that when the great filigree iron gates are once closed on her , she and her awful sister will never issue therefrom into this little world of history . 
But as we are to see a great deal of Amelia , there is no harm in saying , at the outset of our acquaintance , that she was a dear little creature ; and a great mercy it is , both in life and in novels , which -LRB- and the latter especially -RRB- abound in villains of the most sombre sort , that we are to have for a constant companion so guileless and good-natured a person . 
As she is not a heroine , there is no need to describe her person ; indeed I am afraid that her nose was rather short than otherwise , and her cheeks a great deal too round and red for a heroine ; but her face blushed with rosy health , and her lips with the freshest of smiles , and she had a pair of eyes which sparkled with the brightest and honestest good-humour , except indeed when they filled with tears , and that was a great deal too often ; for the silly thing would cry over a dead canary-bird ; or over a mouse , that the cat haply had seized upon ; or over the end of a novel , were it ever so stupid ; and as for saying an unkind word to her , were any persons hard-hearted enough to do so -- why , so much the worse for them . 
Even Miss Pinkerton , that austere and godlike woman , ceased scolding her after the first time , and though she no more comprehended sensibility than she did Algebra , gave all masters and teachers particular orders to treat Miss Sedley with the utmost gentleness , as harsh treatment was injurious to her . 
So that when the day of departure came , between her two customs of laughing and crying , Miss Sedley was greatly puzzled how to act . 
She was glad to go home , and yet most woefully sad at leaving school . 
For three days before , little Laura Martin , the orphan , followed her about like a little dog . 
She had to make and receive at least fourteen presents -- to make fourteen solemn promises of writing every week : ` Send my letters under cover to my grandpapa , the Earl of Dexter , ' said Miss Saltire -LRB- who , by the way , was rather shabby -RRB- . 
` Never mind the postage , but write every day , you dear darling , ' said the impetuous and woolly-headed , but generous and affectionate Miss Swartz ; and the orphan little Laura Martin -LRB- who was just in round-hand -RRB- , took her friend 's hand and said , looking up in her face wistfully , ` Amelia , when I write to you I shall call you Mamma . ' 
All which details , I have no doubt , JONES , who reads this book at his Club , will pronounce to be excessively foolish , trivial , twaddling , and ultra-sentimental . 
Yes ; I can see Jones at this minute -LRB- rather flushed with his joint of mutton and half pint of wine -RRB- , taking out his pencil and scoring under the words ` foolish , twaddling , ' & c. , and adding to them his own remark of ` QUITE TRUE . ' 
Well , he is a lofty man of genius , and admires the great and heroic in life and novels ; and so had better take warning and go elsewhere . 
Well , then . 
The flowers , and the presents , and the trunks , and bonnet-boxes of Miss Sedley having been arranged by Mr. Sambo in the carriage , together with a very small and weather-beaten old cow 's - skin trunk with Miss Sharp 's card neatly nailed upon it , which was delivered by Sambo with a grin , and packed by the coachman with a corresponding sneer -- the hour for parting came ; and the grief of that moment was considerably lessened by the admirable discourse which Miss Pinkerton addressed to her pupil . 
Not that the parting speech caused Amelia to philosophise , or that it armed her in any way with a calmness , the result of argument ; but it was intolerably dull , pompous , and tedious ; and having the fear of her schoolmistress greatly before her eyes , Miss Sedley did not venture , in her presence , to give way to any ebullitions of private grief . 
A seed-cake and a bottle of wine were produced in the drawing-room , as on the solemn occasions of the visits of parents , and these refreshments being partaken of , Miss Sedley was at liberty to depart . 
` You 'll go in and say good-by to Miss Pinkerton , Becky ! ' 
said Miss Jemima to a young lady of whom nobody took any notice , and who was coming downstairs with her own bandbox . ' 
I suppose I must , ' said Miss Sharp calmly , and much to the wonder of Miss Jemima ; and the latter having knocked at the door , and receiving permission to come in , Miss Sharp advanced in a very unconcerned manner , and said in French , and with a perfect accent , ` Mademoiselle , je viens vous faire mes adieux . ' 
Miss Pinkerton did not understand French ; she only directed those who did : but biting her lips and throwing up her venerable and Roman-nosed head -LRB- on the top of which figured a large and solemn turban -RRB- , she said , ` Miss Sharp , I wish you a good morning . ' 
As the Hammersmith Semiramis spoke , she waved one hand , both by way of adieu , and to give Miss Sharp an opportunity of shaking one of the fingers of the hand which was left out for that purpose . 
Miss Sharp only folded her own hands with a very frigid smile and bow , and quite declined to accept the proffered honour ; on which Semiramis tossed up her turban more indignantly than ever . 
In fact , it was a little battle between the young lady and the old one , and the latter was worsted . 
` Heaven bless you , my child , ' said she , embracing Amelia , and scowling the while over the girl 's shoulder at Miss Sharp . 
` Come away , Becky , ' said Miss Jemima , pulling the young woman away in great alarm , and the drawing-room door closed upon them for ever . 
Then came the struggle and parting below . 
Words refuse to tell it . 
All the servants were there in the hall -- all the dear friends -- all the young ladies -- the dancing-master who had just arrived ; and there was such a scuffling , and hugging , and kissing , and crying , with the hysterical YOOPS of Miss Swartz , the parlour-boarder , from her room , as no pen can depict , and as the tender heart would fain pass over . 
The embracing was over ; they parted -- that is , Miss Sedley parted from her friends . 
Miss Sharp had demurely entered the carriage some minutes before . 
Nobody cried for leaving HER . 
Sambo of the bandy legs slammed the carriage door on his young weeping mistress . 
He sprang up behind the carriage . 
` Stop ! ' 
cried Miss Jemima , rushing to the gate with a parcel . 
` It 's some sandwiches , my dear , ' said she to Amelia . 
` You may be hungry , you know ; and Becky , Becky Sharp , here 's a book for you that my sister -- that is , I -- Johnson 's Dixonary , you know ; you must n't leave us without that . 
Good-by . 
Drive on , coachman . 
God bless you ! ' 
And the kind creature retreated into the garden , overcome with emotion . 
But , lo ! 
and just as the coach drove off , Miss Sharp put her pale face out of the window and actually flung the book back into the garden . 
This almost caused Jemima to faint with terror . 
` Well , I never ' -- said she -- ` what an audacious ' -- Emotion prevented her from completing either sentence . 
The carriage rolled away ; the great gates were closed ; the bell rang for the dancing lesson . 
The world is before the two young ladies ; and so , farewell to Chiswick Mall . 
CHAPTER II In Which Miss Sharp and Miss Sedley Prepare to Open the Campaign When Miss Sharp had performed the heroical act mentioned in the last chapter , and had seen the Dixonary , flying over the pavement of the little garden , fall at length at the feet of the astonished Miss Jemima , the young lady 's countenance , which had before worn an almost livid look of hatred , assumed a smile that perhaps was scarcely more agreeable , and she sank back in the carriage in an easy frame of mind , saying -- ` So much for the Dixonary ; and , thank God , I 'm out of Chiswick . ' 
Miss Sedley was almost as flurried at the act of defiance as Miss Jemima had been ; for , consider , it was but one minute that she had left school , and the impressions of six years are not got over in that space of time . 
Nay , with some persons those awes and terrors of youth last for ever and ever . 
I know , for instance , an old gentleman of sixty-eight , who said to me one morning at breakfast , with a very agitated countenance , ' I dreamed last night that I was flogged by Dr. Raine . ' 
Fancy had carried him back five-and-fifty years in the course of that evening . 
Dr. Raine and his rod were just as awful to him in his heart , then , at sixty-eight , as they had been at thirteen . 
If the Doctor , with a large birch , had appeared bodily to him , even at the age of threescore and eight , and had said in awful voice , ` Boy , take down your pant -- ' ? 
Well , well , Miss Sedley was exceedingly alarmed at this act of insubordination . 
` How could you do so , Rebecca ? ' 
at last she said , after a pause . 
` Why , do you think Miss Pinkerton will come out and order me back to the black-hole ? ' 
said Rebecca , laughing . 
` No : but -- ' ' I hate the whole house , ' continued Miss Sharp in a fury . ' 
I hope I may never set eyes on it again . 
I wish it were in the bottom of the Thames , I do ; and if Miss Pinkerton were there , I would n't pick her out , that I would n't . 
O how I should like to see her floating in the water yonder , turban and all , with her train streaming after her , and her nose like the beak of a wherry . ' 
` Hush ! ' 
cried Miss Sedley . 
` Why , will the black footman tell tales ? ' 
cried Miss Rebecca , laughing . 
` He may go back and tell Miss Pinkerton that I hate her with all my soul ; and I wish he would ; and I wish I had a means of proving it , too . 
For two years I have only had insults and outrage from her . 
I have been treated worse than any servant in the kitchen . 
I have never had a friend or a kind word , except from you . 
I have been made to tend the little girls in the lower schoolroom , and to talk French to the Misses , until I grew sick of my mother tongue . 
But that talking French to Miss Pinkerton was capital fun , was n't it ? 
She does n't know a word of French , and was too proud to confess it . 
I believe it was that which made her part with me ; and so thank Heaven for French . 
Vive la France ! 
Vive l'Empereur ! 
Vive Bonaparte ! ' ' 
O Rebecca , Rebecca , for shame ! ' 
cried Miss Sedley ; for this was the greatest blasphemy Rebecca had as yet uttered ; and in those days , in England , to say , ` Long live Bonaparte ! ' 
was as much as to say , ` Long live Lucifer ! ' 
` How can you -- how dare you have such wicked , revengeful thoughts ? ' 
` Revenge may be wicked , but it 's natural , ' answered Miss Rebecca . 
` I 'm no angel . ' 
And , to say the truth , she certainly was not . 
For it may be remarked in the course of this little conversation -LRB- which took place as the coach rolled along lazily by the river side -RRB- that though Miss Rebecca Sharp has twice had occasion to thank Heaven , it has been , in the first place , for ridding her of some person whom she hated , and secondly , for enabling her to bring her enemies to some sort of perplexity or confusion ; neither of which are very amiable motives for religious gratitude , or such as would be put forward by persons of a kind and placable disposition . 
Miss Rebecca was not , then , in the least kind or placable . 
All the world used her ill , said this young misanthropist , and we may be pretty certain that persons whom all the world treats ill , deserve entirely the treatment they get . 
The world is a looking-glass , and gives back to every man the reflection of his own face . 
Frown at it , and it will in turn look sourly upon you ; laugh at it and with it , and it is a jolly kind companion ; and so let all young persons take their choice . 
This is certain , that if the world neglected Miss Sharp , she never was known to have done a good action in behalf of anybody ; nor can it be expected that twenty-four young ladies should all be as amiable as the heroine of this work , Miss Sedley -LRB- whom we have selected for the very reason that she was the best-natured of all , otherwise what on earth was to have prevented us from putting up Miss Swartz , or Miss Crump , or Miss Hopkins , as heroine in her place ! -RRB- 
it could not be expected that every one should be of the humble and gentle temper of Miss Amelia Sedley ; should take every opportunity to vanquish Rebecca 's hard-heartedness and ill-humour ; and , by a thousand kind words and offices , overcome , for once at least , her hostility to her kind . 
Miss Sharp 's father was an artist , and in that quality had given lessons of drawing at Miss Pinkerton 's school . 
He was a clever man ; a pleasant companion ; a careless student ; with a great propensity for running into debt , and a partiality for the tavern . 
When he was drunk , he used to beat his wife and daughter ; and the next morning , with a headache , he would rail at the world for its neglect of his genius , and abuse , with a good deal of cleverness , and sometimes with perfect reason , the fools , his brother painters . 
As it was with the utmost difficulty that he could keep himself , and as he owed money for a mile round Soho , where he lived , he thought to better his circumstances by marrying a young woman of the French nation , who was by profession an opera-girl . 
The humble calling of her female parent Miss Sharp never alluded to , but used to state subsequently that the Entrechats were a noble family of Gascony , and took great pride in her descent from them . 
And curious it is that as she advanced in life this young lady 's ancestors increased in rank and splendour . 
Rebecca 's mother had had some education somewhere , and her daughter spoke French with purity and a Parisian accent . 
It was in those days rather a rare accomplishment , and led to her engagement with the orthodox Miss Pinkerton . 
For her mother being dead , her father , finding himself not likely to recover , after his third attack of delirium tremens , wrote a manly and pathetic letter to Miss Pinkerton , recommending the orphan child to her protection , and so descended to the grave , after two bailiffs had quarrelled over his corpse . 
Rebecca was seventeen when she came to Chiswick , and was bound over as an articled pupil ; her duties being to talk French , as we have seen ; and her privileges to live cost free , and , with a few guineas a year , to gather scraps of knowledge from the professors who attended the school . 
She was small and slight in person ; pale , sandy-haired , and with eyes habitually cast down : when they looked up they were very large , odd , and attractive ; so attractive that the Reverend Mr. Crisp , fresh from Oxford , and curate to the Vicar of Chiswick , the Reverend Mr. Flowerdew , fell in love with Miss Sharp ; being shot dead by a glance of her eyes which was fired all the way across Chiswick Church from the school-pew to the reading-desk . 
This infatuated young man used sometimes to take tea with Miss Pinkerton , to whom he had been presented by his mamma , and actually proposed something like marriage in an intercepted note , which the one-eyed apple-woman was charged to deliver . 
Mrs. Crisp was summoned from Buxton , and abruptly carried off her darling boy ; but the idea , even , of such an eagle in the Chiswick dovecot caused a great flutter in the breast of Miss Pinkerton , who would have sent away Miss Sharp but that she was bound to her under a forfeit , and who never could thoroughly believe the young lady 's protestations that she had never exchanged a single word with Mr. Crisp , except under her own eyes on the two occasions when she had met him at tea . 
By the side of many tall and bouncing young ladies in the establishment , Rebecca Sharp looked like a child . 
But she had the dismal precocity of poverty . 
Many a dun had she talked to , and turned away from her father 's door ; many a tradesman had she coaxed and wheedled into good-humour , and into the granting of one meal more . 
She sate commonly with her father , who was very proud of her wit , and heard the talk of many of his wild companions -- often but ill-suited for a girl to hear . 
But she never had been a girl , she said ; she had been a woman since she was eight years old . 
Oh , why did Miss Pinkerton let such a dangerous bird into her cage ? 
The fact is , the old lady believed Rebecca to be the meekest creature in the world , so admirably , on the occasions when her father brought her to Chiswick , used Rebecca to perform the part of the ingenue ; and only a year before the arrangement by which Rebecca had been admitted into her house , and when Rebecca was sixteen years old , Miss Pinkerton majestically , and with a little speech , made her a present of a doll -- which was , by the way , the confiscated property of Miss Swindle , discovered surreptitiously nursing it in school-hours . 
How the father and daughter laughed as they trudged home together after the evening party -LRB- it was on the occasion of the speeches , when all the professors were invited -RRB- and how Miss Pinkerton would have raged had she seen the caricature of herself which the little mimic , Rebecca , managed to make out of her doll . 
Becky used to go through dialogues with it ; it formed the delight of Newman Street , Gerrard Street , and the Artists ' quarter : and the young painters , when they came to take their gin-and-water with their lazy , dissolute , clever , jovial senior , used regularly to ask Rebecca if Miss Pinkerton was at home : she was as well known to them , poor soul ! 
as Mr. Lawrence or President West . 
Once Rebecca had the honour to pass a few days at Chiswick ; after which she brought back Jemima , and erected another doll as Miss Jemmy : for though that honest creature had made and given her jelly and cake enough for three children , and a seven-shilling piece at parting , the girl 's sense of ridicule was far stronger than her gratitude , and she sacrificed Miss Jemmy quite as pitilessly as her sister . 
The catastrophe came , and she was brought to the Mall as to her home . 
The rigid formality of the place suffocated her : the prayers and the meals , the lessons and the walks , which were arranged with a conventual regularity , oppressed her almost beyond endurance ; and she looked back to the freedom and the beggary of the old studio in Soho with so much regret , that everybody , herself included , fancied she was consumed with grief for her father . 
She had a little room in the garret , where the maids heard her walking and sobbing at night ; but it was with rage , and not with grief . 
She had not been much of a dissembler , until now her loneliness taught her to feign . 
She had never mingled in the society of women : her father , reprobate as he was , was a man of talent ; his conversation was a thousand times more agreeable to her than the talk of such of her own sex as she now encountered . 
The pompous vanity of the old schoolmistress , the foolish good-humour of her sister , the silly chat and scandal of the elder girls , and the frigid correctness of the governesses equally annoyed her ; and she had no soft maternal heart , this unlucky girl , otherwise the prattle and talk of the younger children , with whose care she was chiefly intrusted , might have soothed and interested her ; but she lived among them two years , and not one was sorry that she went away . 
The gentle tender-hearted Amelia Sedley was the only person to whom she could attach herself in the least ; and who could help attaching herself to Amelia ? 
The happiness -- the superior advantages of the young women round about her , gave Rebecca inexpressible pangs of envy . 
` What airs that girl gives herself , because she is an Earl 's grand-daughter , ' she said of one . 
` How they cringe and bow to that Creole , because of her hundred thousand pounds ! 
I am a thousand times cleverer and more charming than that creature , for all her wealth . 
I am as well bred as the Earl 's grand-daughter , for all her fine pedigree ; and yet every one passes me by here . 
And yet , when I was at my father 's , did not the men give up their gayest balls and parties in order to pass the evening with me ? ' 
She determined at any rate to get free from the prison in which she found herself , and now began to act for herself , and for the first time to make connected plans for the future . 
She took advantage , therefore , of the means of study the place offered her ; and as she was already a musician and a good linguist , she speedily went through the little course of study which was considered necessary for ladies in those days . 
Her music she practised incessantly , and one day , when the girls were out , and she had remained at home , she was overheard to play a piece so well that Minerva thought , wisely , she could spare herself the expense of a master for the juniors , and intimated to Miss Sharp that she was to instruct them in music for the future . 
The girl refused ; and for the first time , and to the astonishment of the majestic mistress of the school . ' 
I am here to speak French with the children , ' Rebecca said abruptly , ` not to teach them music , and save money for you . 
Give me money , and I will teach them . ' 
Minerva was obliged to yield , and , of course , disliked her from that day . 
` For five-and-thirty years , ' she said , and with great justice , ' I never have seen the individual who has dared in my own house to question my authority . 
I have nourished a viper in my bosom . ' ' 
A viper -- a fiddlestick , ' said Miss Sharp to the old lady , almost fainting with astonishment . 
` You took me because I was useful . 
There is no question of gratitude between us . 
I hate this place , and want to leave it . 
I will do nothing here but what I am obliged to do . ' 
It was in vain that the old lady asked her if she was aware she was speaking to Miss Pinkerton ? 
Rebecca laughed in her face , with a horrid sarcastic demoniacal laughter , that almost sent the schoolmistress into fits . 
` Give me a sum of money , ' said the girl , ` and get rid of me -- or , if you like better , get me a good place as governess in a nobleman 's family -- you can do so if you please . ' 
And in their further disputes she always returned to this point , ` Get me a situation -- we hate each other , and I am ready to go . ' 
Worthy Miss Pinkerton , although she had a Roman nose and a turban , and was as tall as a grenadier , and had been up to this time an irresistible princess , had no will or strength like that of her little apprentice , and in vain did battle against her , and tried to overawe her . 
Attempting once to scold her in public , Rebecca hit upon the before-mentioned plan of answering her in French , which quite routed the old woman . 
In order to maintain authority in her school , it became necessary to remove this rebel , this monster , this serpent , this firebrand ; and hearing about this time that Sir Pitt Crawley 's family was in want of a governess , she actually recommended Miss Sharp for the situation , firebrand and serpent as she was . ' 
I can not , certainly , ' she said , ` find fault with Miss Sharp 's conduct , except to myself ; and must allow that her talents and accomplishments are of a high order . 
As far as the head goes , at least , she does credit to the educational system pursued at my establishment . ' 
And so the schoolmistress reconciled the recommendation to her conscience , and the indentures were cancelled , and the apprentice was free . 
The battle here described in a few lines , of course , lasted for some months . 
And as Miss Sedley , being now in her seventeenth year , was about to leave school , and had a friendship for Miss Sharp -LRB- '' tis the only point in Amelia 's behaviour , ' said Minerva , ` which has not been satisfactory to her mistress ' -RRB- , Miss Sharp was invited by her friend to pass a week with her at home , before she entered upon her duties as governess in a private family . 
Thus the world began for these two young ladies . 
For Amelia it was quite a new , fresh , brilliant world , with all the bloom upon it . 
It was not quite a new one for Rebecca -- -LRB- indeed , if the truth must be told with respect to the Crisp affair , the tart-woman hinted to somebody , who took an affidavit of the fact to somebody else , that there was a great deal more than was made public regarding Mr. Crisp and Miss Sharp , and that his letter was in answer to another letter -RRB- . 
But who can tell you the real truth of the matter ? 
At all events , if Rebecca was not beginning the world , she was beginning it over again . 
By the time the young ladies reached Kensington turnpike , Amelia had not forgotten her companions , but had dried her tears , and had blushed very much and been delighted at a young officer of the Life Guards , who spied her as he was riding by , and said , ' A dem fine gal , egad ! ' 
and before the carriage arrived in Russell Square , a great deal of conversation had taken place about the Drawing-room , and whether or not young ladies wore powder as well as hoops when presented , and whether she was to have that honour : to the Lord Mayor 's ball she knew she was to go . 
And when at length home was reached , Miss Amelia Sedley skipped out on Sambo 's arm , as happy and as handsome a girl as any in the whole big city of London . 
Both he and coachman agreed on this point , and so did her father and mother , and so did every one of the servants in the house , as they stood bobbing , and curtseying , and smiling , in the hall to welcome their young mistress . 
You may be sure that she showed Rebecca over every room of the house , and everything in every one of her drawers ; and her books , and her piano , and her dresses , and all her necklaces , brooches , laces , and gimcracks . 
She insisted upon Rebecca accepting the white cornelian and the turquoise rings , and a sweet sprigged muslin , which was too small for her now , though it would fit her friend to a nicety ; and she determined in her heart to ask her mother 's permission to present her white Cashmere shawl to her friend . 
Could she not spare it ? 
and had not her brother Joseph just brought her two from India ? 
When Rebecca saw the two magnificent Cashmere shawls which Joseph Sedley had brought home to his sister , she said , with perfect truth , ` that it must be delightful to have a brother , ' and easily got the pity of the tender-hearted Amelia for being alone in the world , an orphan without friends or kindred . 
` Not alone , ' said Amelia ; ` you know , Rebecca , I shall always be your friend , and love you as a sister -- indeed I will . ' 
` Ah , but to have parents , as you have -- kind , rich , affectionate parents , who give you everything you ask for ; and their love , which is more precious than all ! 
My poor papa could give me nothing , and I had but two frocks in all the world ! 
And then , to have a brother , a dear brother ! 
Oh , how you must love him ! ' 
Amelia laughed . 
` What ! 
do n't you love him ? 
you , who say you love everybody ? ' 
` Yes , of course , I do -- only -- ' ` Only what ? ' 
` Only Joseph does n't seem to care much whether I love him or not . 
He gave me two fingers to shake when he arrived after ten years ' absence ! 
He is very kind and good , but he scarcely ever speaks to me ; I think he loves his pipe a great deal better than his ' -- but here Amelia checked herself , for why should she speak ill of her brother ? 
` He was very kind to me as a child , ' she added ; ' I was but five years old when he went away . ' 
` Is n't he very rich ? ' 
said Rebecca . 
` They say all Indian nabobs are enormously rich . ' ' 
I believe he has a very large income . ' 
` And is your sister-in-law a nice pretty woman ? ' 
` La ! 
Joseph is not married , ' said Amelia , laughing again . 
Perhaps she had mentioned the fact already to Rebecca , but that young lady did not appear to have remembered it ; indeed , vowed and protested that she expected to see a number of Amelia 's nephews and nieces . 
She was quite disappointed that Mr. Sedley was not married ; she was sure Amelia had said he was , and she doted so on little children . ' 
I think you must have had enough of them at Chiswick , ' said Amelia , rather wondering at the sudden tenderness on her friend 's part ; and indeed in later days Miss Sharp would never have committed herself so far as to advance opinions , the untruth of which would have been so easily detected . 
But we must remember that she is but nineteen as yet , unused to the art of deceiving , poor innocent creature ! 
and making her own experience in her own person . 
The meaning of the above series of queries , as translated in the heart of this ingenious young woman , was simply this : ` If Mr. Joseph Sedley is rich and unmarried , why should I not marry him ? 
I have only a fortnight , to be sure , but there is no harm in trying . ' 
And she determined within herself to make this laudable attempt . 
She redoubled her caresses to Amelia ; she kissed the white cornelian necklace as she put it on ; and vowed she would never , never part with it . 
When the dinner-bell rang she went downstairs with her arm round her friend 's waist , as is the habit of young ladies . 
She was so agitated at the drawing-room door , that she could hardly find courage to enter . 
` Feel my heart , how it beats , dear ! ' 
said she to her friend . 
` No , it does n't , ' said Amelia . 
` Come in , do n't be frightened . 
Papa wo n't do you any harm . ' 
